MOYERS BOARD OF EDUCATION FO

UDENT DISCIPLINE

The Moyers Board of Education believes that the school's primary goal is to educate, not to discipline. However,
education includes establishing norms of social behavior and assisting students in understanding and attaining those
norms. Occasionally, corrective actions are necessary for the benefit of the individual and the school. The teacher in
a public school has the same rights as a parent or guardian to control and discipline a child while the child is in attend-
ance, in transit to or from the school, or participating in any authorized school function. Further, it is the policy of the
district that students may be disciplined for any misconduct related to the programs or activities of the district. No
teacher or administrator will administer formal discipline to his or her own child on behalf of the school except in
cases of disruption in the classroom or common areas. Disciplinary matters concerning children of school employees
will be handled by the appropriate principal or the superintendent or the superintendent's designee. The
superintendent’s child will be disciplined by someone other than the superintendent.

Each student shall be treated in a fair and equitable manner. Disciplinary action will be based on a careful assessment
of the circumstances surrounding each infraction. The following are some examples of these circumstances:

The seriousness of the offense;

The effect of the offense on other students;

Whether the offense is physically or mentally injurious to other people;
Whether the incident is isolated or habitual behavior;

The manifestation of a disability;

Any other circumstances which may be appropriately considered.

Standards of behavior for all members of society are generally a matter of common sense. The following examples of
behavior are not acceptable in society generally, and in a school environment particularly. The involvement of a stu-
dent in the kind of behavior listed below will generally require remedial or corrective action, These examples are not
intended to be exhaustive, and the exclusion or omission of unacceptable behavior is not an endorsement or
acceptance of such behavior. When, in the judgment of a teacher or administrator, a student is involved or has been
involved in unacceptable behavior, appropriate remedial or corrective action will be taken.

l Unexcused lateness to school

2. Unexcused lateness to class

3 Cutting class

4. Leaving school without permission

5 Refusing detention/late room

6. Smoking

7, Truancy

8. Possessing or using alcoholic beverages or other mood-altering chemicals
9. — Stealing

10. Forgery, fraud, or embezzlement

ll. Assault, physical and/or verbal

12. Fighting

13. Possession of weapons or other items with the potential to cause harm
14. Distributing obscene literature

15. Destroying/defacing school property

Adoption Date: 2/27/2024 Revision Date(s): Page 1 of 3

MOYERS BOARD OF EDUCATION FO

STUDENT DISCIPLINE (Cont.)

16. Racial discrimination including racial slurs or other demeaning remarks concerning another person's race,
ancestry, or country of origin and directed toward another student, an employee, or a visitor

17, Sexual harassment

18, Gang related activity or action

19. Cheating

In administering discipline, consideration will be given to alternative methods of punishment to ensure that the most
effective discipline is administered in each case. In all disciplinary action, teachers and administrators will be mindful
of the fact that they are dealing with individual personalities. The faculty may consider consultation with parents to
determine the most effective disciplinary measure.

In considering alternatives of corrective actions, the faculty/administration of the school district will consider those
listed below. However, the school is not limited to these alternative methods, nor does this list reflect an order or
sequence of events to follow in disciplinary actions. The board of education will rely upon the judgment and
discretion of the administrator to determine the appropriate remedial or corrective action in each instance.

1. Conference with student

2. Conference with parents

3 In-school suspension

4. Detention

5. Referral to counselor

6. Behavioral contract

7. Changing student's seat assignment or class assignment

8. Requiring a student to make financial restitution for damaged property

9. Requiring a student to clean or straighten items or facilities damaged by the student's behavior

10. Restriction of privileges

ll, Involvement of local authorities

12. Referring student to appropriate social agency

13. Suspension

14. Other appropriate disciplinary action as required and as indicated by the circumstances which may include, but
is not limited to, removal from eligibility to participate or attend extracurricular activities as well as removal
from the privilege of attending or participating in the graduation ceremony, school dances, prom, prom
activities, and/or class trips.

Parents, guardians, and students enrolled in this school district shall be notified at the beginning of each school year
that this policy is in effect. A copy of this policy will be made available upon request to parents or guardians at any
time during the school year.

Parents, guardians, and students residing in this school district are also advised by means of this policy statement and
by the student handbook that students in this district shall have no reasonable expectation of privacy rights towards
school officials, in school lockers, desks, or other school property. School personnel shall have access to school lock-
ers, desks, and other school property at any time and no reason shall be necessary for such search. Student property
may be searched with reasonable suspicion.

Teachers, parents, guardians, and students are invited and encouraged to participate in the formulation of disciplinary
policies, rules, and regulations by suggesting to administrators appropriate means of discipline for specific infractions.

Adoption Date: 2/27/2024 Revision Date(s): Page 2 of 3

MOYERS BOARD OF EDUCATION FO

STUDENT DISCIPLINE (Cont.)

REFERENCE: 100.5. §7115
70 O.S. §6-114
70 O.S, §24-101.3

THIS POLICY REQUIRED BY LAW.

Adoption Date: 2/27/2024 Revision Date(s):

Page 3 of 3

MOYERS BOARD OF EDUCATION FO-R1

CONTROL AND DISCIPLINE POLICY

The board of education believes that the school's primary goal is to educate, not discipline. However, when the
behavior of an individual student interferes with the rights of others, corrective action may be necessary for the benefit
of the individual as well as the school. A student who has been suspended for a violent offense directed towards a
teacher shall not be allowed to return to that teacher’s classroom without the approval of that teacher.

Oklahoma Law, Title 70, Section 6-114, provides teachers with the same rights as parents to control and discipline
school children in accordance with local school policies. The following schedule of infractions is provided as an aid
to teachers in exercising control and discipline of students. The schedule is not intended to include all possible infrac-
tions, Therefore, behavior that is not included in the following schedule may warrant appropriate disciplinary meas-
ures. The following schedule shall not be used in determining discipline for any child on an IEP or Section 504 plan
until such time as the student’s IEP team has determined that the infraction is in no way a manifestation of that
student’s disability.

Infractions imum Action < > Maximum Action

1 Unexcused tardiness ---- Refer to Attendance Policy ----

2. Disruption of class or assembly School Conference Parent Conference Suspension

3 Lunchroom misconduct School Conference Parent Conference Suspension

4. Bus/playground misconduct --- Refer to Bus Conduct Policy ----

5. Negligence in completing classwork School Conference Parent Conference Suspension

6. Cutting class --- Refer to Attendance Policy ----

7. Leaving school without permission ---- Refer to Leaving School Grounds (Closed Campus) Policy ----

8. Truancy ---- Refer to Attendance Policy ----

9. Tobacco on school grounds School Conference Parent Conference Suspension !
10. Drugs or Alcohol possession Parent Conference Suspension |:*
ll. Gambling School Conference Parent Conference Suspension
12. Theft Parent Conference Suspension |:*
13. Assault-physical or verbal Parent Conference Suspension '\?
14, Fighting Parent Conference Suspension
15. Destruction of property, vandalism Parent Conference Suspension '-?
16. Threats/Harassment School Conference Parent Conference Suspension *
17. Extortion School Conference Suspension ':?
18. Refusal to obey school officials School Conference Parent Conference Suspension
19. Possession of weapons or other items with the potential to cause harm Suspension?

' May require counseling and rehabilitative efforts before reinstated in school programs
> May require notification of legal authorities

Other possible corrective actions include warning students that continued infraction may result in more severe conse-
quences, removing students from class, before or after school detention, alternative placements, financial restitution, if
necessary, and referral to social agencies, if appropriate. The administration may impose punishment that would
prevent a student from participation in and attendance at extracurricular activities. In addition, student discipline
consequences may include an inability to participate in the graduation ceremony. prom, prom activities, school

dances, and/or a class trip.

Suspension alternatives may include in-house suspension or out-of-school suspension. Refer to the Suspension Policy
(see policy FOD) for requirements for short-term suspensions (1-10 days) and long term suspensions (11 or more:
days).

Adoption Date: 2/27/2024 Revision Date(s): Page 1 of 1

