VIAN PUBLIC SCHOOLS
BOARD OF EDUCATION POLICY

Students

Adopted: January 9, 2006
Revised: August 11, 2008; March 8, 2010;
August 8, 2011; August 13, 2012;
October 12, 2014; October 12, 2015;
December 10, 2018; October 14, 2019;
August 9, 2021; October 9, 2023;
August 11, 2025

STUDENT BEHAVIOR

Discipline Code

The following behaviors at school, while on school vehicles or going to or from or attending
school events will result in disciplinary action, which may include in-school placement

options or out-of-school suspension:

1.

2.

Arson
Altering or attempting to alter another individual’s food or beverage
Assault (whether physical or verbal) and/or battery

Attempting to incite or produce imminent violence directed against another
person because of his or her race, color, sex, pregnancy, gender, gender
expression or identity, national origin, religion, disability, veteran status,
sexual orientation, age, or genetic information by making or transmitting or
causing or allowing to be transmitted, any telephonic, computerized or
electronic message

Attempting to incite or produce imminent violence directed against another
person because of his or her race, color, sex, pregnancy, gender, gender
expression or identity, national origin, religion, disability, veteran status,
sexual orientation, age, or genetic information by broadcasting, publishing or
distributing or causing or allowing to be broadcast, published or distributed,
any message or material

Academic Misconduct, including, but not limited to, cheating, plagiarism,
unauthorized collaboration, alteration of academic materials or other
academic misbehavior

Complicity in misconduct by others, including, but not limited to, attempting
to or encouraging others to commit prohibited conduct. Apathy or
acquiescence in the presence of prohibited conduct is violative of this policy.

Conduct that threatens or jeopardizes the safety of others

Cutting class or sleeping, eating or refusing to work in class

Section 10 —- Page 23

10.

ll.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

al.

22.

23.

24.

Disorderly conduct, including behaving in a disorderly, lewd, indecent
manner or breaching the peace on school property or in school-sponsored
activities. Examples include, but are not limited to, obscene language,
profanity, inappropriate behavior or gestures, indecent exposure,
nonconsensual photography, video, or audio recording of another person on
school premises or at school-sponsored events when recording causes or is
likely to cause injury or distress

Disruption of the educational process or operation of the school — as to
disruptive behavior in the classroom specifically, engaging in behavior that a
reasonable person would view as substantial or repeated interference with
the instructor’s ability to teach the class or the ability of other students to
benefit from instruction

Extortion

Failure to attend assigned detention, alternative school or other disciplinary
assignment without approval

Failure to comply with state immunization records
False reports or false calls

Fighting

Forgery, fraud, or embezzlement

Gambling

Gang related activity or action

Harassment, intimidation, and bullying, including gestures, written or verbal
expression, electronic communication or physical acts

Hazings (whether involving initiations, admission into, affiliations with, or as a
continued involvement in a group or organization or not) in connection with
any school activity, regardless of location. Hazing, includes, but is not limited
to, any activity that recklessly or intentionally endangers the mental or
physical health or safety of a student. Likewise, engaging in any action or
activity that causes or is likely to cause physical or mental discomfort or
distress that may demean, degrade, or disgrace any person, regardless of
location, intent or consent of participants is violative of this policy.

Immorality
Inappropriate attire, including violation of dress code

Intimidation or harassment because of race, color, sex, pregnancy, gender,
gender expression or identity, national origin, religion, disability, veteran
status, sexual orientation, age, or genetic information, including but not
limited to: (a) assault and battery; (6) damage, destruction, vandalism or
defacing any real or personal property; or threatening, by word or act, the

Section 10 —- Page 24
25.

26.

az.

28.

29.

30.

31.

32.

33.

34.

35.

acts identified in (a) or (b)

Physical or verbal abuse, including, but not limited to, physically restraining
or transporting someone against their will

Possession or distribution of a caustic substance

Possessing, distributing or viewing obscene materials, including electronic
possession, distribution or viewing (sexting)

Possession of synthetic urine, a warmer or any other item with the intent to use
that item to tamper with a drug or alcohol test

Possession, without prior authorization, of a wireless telecommunication
device

Possession, threat or use of a dangerous weapon! and_ related
instrumentalities (i.e., bullets, shells, gun powder, pellets, etc.)

Possession, claimed possession, use, manufacture, distribution, sale,
purchase, conspiracy to sell, distribute or possess or being in the chain of sale
or distribution, or being under the influence of (a) alcoholic beverages, (b)
any mind altering substance, except for medications taken for legitimate
medical purposes pursuant to district policy, including but not limited to
prescription medications for which the individual does not have a
prescription, or medications used outside their intended therapeutic purpose,
(c) paint, glue, aerosol sprays, salts, incense and other substances which may
be used as an intoxicating substance, or (d) any substance believed or
represented to be a prohibited substance, regardless of its actual content.

Possession or claimed possession of illegal and/or drug related paraphernalia

Possession, claimed possession, distribution, or claimed distribution of
supplements, prescription medicine, and/or non-prescription medicine while
at school and school related functions without prior district approval

Purchasing, selling and/or attempting to purchase or sell prescription and
non-prescription medicine while at school and school related functions

School Bus or Transportation Misconduct — While riding on any district school
bus or other district-provided mode of transportation, engaging in any of the
following acts is prohibited: (i) throwing any object; (ii) placing any part of
one’s body out of a window (bus moving or stationary); (iii) eating, drinking,
and/or possessing food or drink while on a bus (lunches taken to school are
excluded provided they are packed in a container and the container is not
opened on the bus); (iv) failure to remain seated (feet on floor, facing front);
(v) disrespectful words, comments or actions toward the driver or other
passengers; (vi) blocking the aisle; (vii) pushing while loading/unloading or

' Students who are members of JROTC and are participating in an authorized school program may,
with prior approval from the principal, bring an inoperable weapon to school for the sole and
exclusive purpose of participating in the program. Students may only possess the inoperable
weapon in a manner consistent with the authorization to participate in the program.

Section 10 —- Page 25
36.

37.

38.

39.

40.

41.

42.

43.

44,

45.

46.

while bus is approaching; (viii) transporting unauthorized items; (ix) any type
of harassment; (x) excessive noise; and (xi) improper street crossing during
loading or unloading.

Sexual or other harassment of individuals including, but not limited to,
students, school employees, volunteers

Theft

Threatening behavior, including but not limited to gestures, written, verbal,
or physical acts, or electronic communications

Truancy

Use, possession, claimed possession, distribution or selling marijuana or
marijuana related products in any form. “Marijuana” is defined as provided
for in the district's policy on Medical Marijuana, Hemp & Cannabidiol (CBD))

Use, possession, claimed possession, distribution or selling tobacco, or
tobacco related products in any form, including but not limited to cigarettes,
cigars, loose tobacco, rolling papers, chewing tobacco, snuff, matches and
lighters, and vapor products which includes noncombustible products that
may or may not contain nicotine, that employ a mechanical heating element,
battery, electronic circuit or other mechanism, regardless of shape or size,
that can be used to produce a vapor in a solution or other form. A vapor
product also includes any vapor cartridge or other container with or without
nicotine or other form that is intended to be used with an electronic cigarette,
electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe or similar product or
device and any vapor cartridge or other container of a solution, that may or
may not contain nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic
cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo or electronic device. Vapor
products not included are any products regulated by the United States Food
and Drug Administration under Chapter V of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic
Act.

Use or possession of missing or stolen property if property is reasonably
suspected to have been taken from a student, a school employee, or the

school
Using racial, religious, ethnic, sexual, gender or disability-related epithets

Use of the school’s resources (i.e., computers, electronic mail, internet, and
similar resources) in a manner prohibited by policies, in any manner not
authorized by school officials, or in violation of law

Vandalism

Violation of board of education policies, rules or regulations or violation of
school rules and regulations including, but not limited to, disrespect,
lingering in restrooms, running in halls, bringing unauthorized items to
school, inappropriate or unauthorized use of cellular phones or other
electronic media, name calling, destroying or defacing school property

Section 10 — Page 26
47. Vulgarity
48. Willful damage to school property
49, Willful disobedience of a directive of any school official

In addition, conduct occurring outside of the normal school day or off school property that
has a direct and immediate negative effect on the discipline or educational process or
effectiveness of the school, will also result in disciplinary action, which may include in-
school placement options or out-of-school suspension. This includes but is not limited to
electronic communication, whether or not such communication originated at school or with
school equipment, if the communication is specifically directed at students or school
personnel and concerns harassment, intimidation or bullying at school.

School Safety and Bullying Prevention Act (OKLA. STAT. tit. 70, § 24-100.2)

The Oklahoma Legislature established the School Safety and Bullying Prevention Act with the
express intent of prohibiting bullying in all schools. In addition to the prohibition listed in
the student discipline code above, the board has adopted a separate policy prohibiting
bullying and outlining the district’s plan to address it.

Sample Disciplinary Options

. Instructor or Administrator Intervention

May include, but is not limited to: warning conference with student, parent
conference, referral to counselor, behavioral contract, restriction of privileges,
requirement of corrective action by student, changing student’s seat or class
assignment, involvement of local authorities or agencies, or other appropriate action
as required or indicated by the circumstances.

" Detention or In-School Intervention

Detention is a correctional measure used when it is deemed appropriate. Students
are to report to the appropriate teacher/principal at the specified time with class
work to be studied. Detention may be assigned on a week-day or on a Saturday, as
deemed appropriate.

" Alternative In-School Placement

Alternative in-school placement is an optional correctional measure that may be used
by the school when deemed appropriate. It involves assignment to a school site,
designated by the school, for a prescribed course of education as determined by
school representatives. Any such placement will be made in accordance with
applicable special education procedural safeguards.

" Alternative Out-of-School Placement
Alternative out-of-school placement is an optional correctional measure specifically

authorized in cases when a student has made electronic communications intended to
terrify, intimidate, harass, or threaten injury or harm to faculty or students. Any such

Section 10 — Page 27
placement will be made in accordance with applicable special education procedural
safeguards.

School Service

School service may be required of students when an administrator believes that it
would allow the student to understand the logical consequences of his/her conduct.
Examples include, but are not limited to, cleaning after vandalism or littering,
helping a teacher after disrupting a class, etc. School service will not be utilized to
augment the district’s workforce, in ways which are likely to endanger a student, or
in a manner which is designed to unduly embarrass a student.

Corporal Punishment

Corporal punishment may be administered at the discretion of the school
administration. Prior to administering corporal punishment, the administrator will
explain to the student the offense he/she is alleged to have committed and allow the
student to explain his/her version of events.

Corporal punishment must be administered by a school administrator in a private
office area with another certified employee serving as a witness. If possible, the
witness will be the same gender as the student. Corporal punishment will only be
administered to a student’s buttocks with a finished wooden paddle after the student
has emptied his/her pockets. No student will receive more than 3 swats per incident,
and no more than 3 swats per day. The corporal punishment must be reasonable in
force considering the student’s age, sex, physical and mental condition, whether the
force was degrading and the likelihood of permanent harm to the student.

Corporal punishment will not be administered to any student identified with a
disability in accordance with the federal Individuals with Disabilities Education Act

(IDEA).

A report must be completed by the administrator and signed by both the
administrator and the witness. The report will specify the infraction, the number of
swats given, the date, time and location of the corporal punishment and the name and

position of the witness.

Parents who object to the use of corporal punishment for their student must notify the
school principal, in writing, at the beginning of each school year.

Out of School Student Suspension

Students may be suspended out of school pursuant to the district’s policy regarding
student suspension.

Student Privileges While Under Suspension

Participation in the extracurricular activities of the school is a privilege and not a right.
Accordingly, when a student's behavior results in a determination by the principal to impose
disciplinary or other correctional measures against a student, the student will not be
permitted to participate in any extracurricular activities offered by the school during the

Section 10 —- Page 28
term of the discipline unless, in the sole judgment of the principal, such participation is
appropriate given the nature of the offense committed by the student.

"Extracurricular activities" include, but are not limited to, all school sponsored teams, clubs,
organizations, ceremonies, student government, band, athletics and all other school
sponsored activities and organizations.

Section 10 —- Page 29
