Bradford School District
School Health and Wellness Policy

Purpose

The Bradford School District is committed to providing a school environment that promotes and
protects children’s health, well-being, and ability to leam. This policy supports healthy eating, physical
activity, and overall wellness in alignment with federal and Arkansas state requirements,

1. Wellness Policy Leadership
The district will establish a Wellness Committee that includes:
« District administrators
® School food service staff
« School nurses
@ Teachers
° Parents/guardians
e Students (when appropriate}
@ Community members
Responsibilities:
¢ Develop, implement, and review wellness initiatives
¢ Ensure compliance with federal and state regulations
s Evaluate progress annually

ll. Nutrition Promotion
The district wilk
* Promote healthy food and beverage choices using evidence-based strategies
* Encourage participation in schoo! meal programs
* Use marketing and messaging that supports nutritious foods
* Provide nutrition education through classroom instruction and school activities

lil. Nutrition Standards

School Meals

All meals served through the National School Lunch and Breakfast Programs wilk
« Meet or exceed USDA nutrition standards

@ 413
* Offer a variety of fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and low-fat dairy
e Limit sodium, saturated fat, and added sugars

Competitive Foods and Beverages

Foods sold autside the school meal programs (vending, fundraisers, concessions) must:
® Meet USDA Smart Snacks standards
e Be age-appropriate and pertion-controlied

Celebrations and Rewards

e Encourage non-food rewards :
e Promote healthy food options during classroom celebrations

iV. Physical Activity

Physical Education

e All students will receive regular, standards-based physical education
® Classes will be taught by certified instructors when possibfe
e Programs will emphasize lifelong fitness and skill development

Daily Physical Activity
e Students will have opportunities for physical activity throughout the school day

® Elementary students will receive daily recess
® Schools will encourage movement breaks during classroom instruction

Before and After School Programs

¢ Schools will offer or prornote extracurricular physical activity opportunities

V. Other School-Based Wellness Activities
The district wilk
* Provide a safe and clean environment for physical activity
* Support mental health and social-emotional learning programs
e Promote staff wellness initiatives
* Encourage family and community involvement in wellness activities

VL School Health Services
@ Access to school nursing services

. 213
e Health screenings as required by Arkansas law
@ Referrals to community health resources when needed

VIL Implementation and Monitoring
® The Superintendent or designee will oversee policy implernentation
a Schools will track compliance and progress
@ The district will conduct a comprehensive assessment at least once every three years

VI. Public Involvement and Transparency
The district will:

@ Make this policy available to the public

* Provide updates on wellness initiatives

e Invite stakeholders to participate in policy review

IX. Policy Review

This policy will be reviewed and updated at least every three years or as required by law.

Adoption
Adopted by the Bradford Schoo! District Board of Education on: 5-4 -de

