2026-2027


Parent-Student Handbook
Updates Approved 2026
ADMINISTRATION


George Kennedy – Superintendent
Chris Moss – Assistant Superintendent
Joshua McCorkle – Curriculum Director
Amy Caines - Special Education Director 
Tyler Golden- High School Principal
Angela Duncan- Assistant High School Principal
Jared Richey - Jr. High School Principal
Audra Seel- Jr. High School Assistant Principal
Bobby Gross- Jr./Sr. High School Assistant Principal
Joshua Wright – Middle School Principal
Joe Baltz – Middle School Assistant Principal
Jennifer Jaynes – Intermediate School Principal
Crystal Fluker – Intermediate School Assistant Principal
Sandy McCall - Elementary Principal
Morgan Despain - Elementary Assistant Principal
Jennifer Easley - Primary School Principal
Andrea Pearson- Primary School Assistant Principal


BOARD OF EDUCATION


 Jason Allen
Danna Johnson
Heath McGaughey
Tim McNatt
Colby Brooks
Justin Ladd
Brandon Sutton




                                


  

INTRODUCTION


This handbook is distributed to help the students of the Brookland School District perform their assigned duties with better understanding of the rules and policies that have been established by the administration and approved by the Board of Education.We hope that the policies and regulations contained in this guide will assist us in setting the pattern for the program of education in our district.


Some items in this book, due to their nature, cannot be changed.  Others will be revised from time to time as the need arises.  This handbook will be an important tool in helping you to become a better student and citizen.  We encourage all students and parents to study the handbook carefully and keep it available for reference. If there are any conflicting policies within the district policy, the most currently approved policy shall take precedence unless it is in violation of any other state or federal law and/or rule or regulation set forth by a state agency or legislative body.
This book is printed and distributed with the approval of the superintendent and was adopted by the Brookland Board of Education.


BROOKLAND SCHOOL DISTRICT 
MISSION STATEMENT


The faculty, administration, and staff of Brookland Public Schools strive to provide equal opportunities for intellectual, social, physical, and emotional growth for every student within a safe environment.  We accept all students as unique individuals and through a continuing process assist them to develop toward their maximum potential.


BROOKLAND SCHOOL ALMA MATER


Hail, Alma Mater
Hail, Brookland School
We give a cheer now
For our school,
For the school we love so well.
Hail, Alma Mater
Ours ‘til we die,
We give a cheer, cheer, cheer
For our school,
For dear old Brookland School!
















SECTION 4—STUDENTS


THE SCHOOL DAY


Primary (PK-K): School begins at 7:50 a.m. and dismisses at 3:00 p.m.
Elementary (1-3): School begins at 7:50 a.m. and dismisses at 3:00 p.m.
Intermediate(3-4): School begins at 7:50 a.m. and dismisses at 3:00 p.m.
Middle School (4-6): School begins at 7:55 a.m. and dismisses at 3:05 p.m
   Jr./Sr. High School (7-12): School begins at 7:45 a.m. and dismisses at 3:00 p.m.


Notifications of changes made to the school day will be sent to parents via an automated communication system. Instructions to register for this free service can be found in each school office and on our website: brooklandbearcats.org


JR. HIGH/SR. HIGH DAILY SCHEDULE


GRADES 7-8
                                                                         FIRST BELL                                                   7:40
FIRST PERIOD                      7:45-8:39
Second Chance Breakfast
SECOND PERIOD                           8:44-9:38
THIRD PERIOD         9:43-10:37
7th-8th LUNCH                               10:37-11:07
FOURTH PERIOD                       11:12-12:06
FIFTH PERIOD          12:11-1:04
SIXTH PERIOD         1:09-2:02
SEVENTH PERIOD                            2:07-3:00
LAST BELL, BUSES LEAVE                     3:05


GRADES 9-12
FIRST BELL                             7:40
FIRST PERIOD                    7:45-8:39
Second Chance Breakfast
SECOND PERIOD                           8:44-9:38
THIRD PERIOD         9:43-10:37
FOURTH PERIOD                       10:42-11:36
1ST LUNCH                       11:36-12:06
PERIOD 5A                        11:41-12:34
PERIOD 5B                        12:34-1:04
2ND LUNCH                       12:00-12:30
SIXTH PERIOD                 1:09-2:02
SEVENTH PERIOD                           2:07-3:00


LAST BELL, BUSES LEAVE                     3:05
















ARRIVAL/DISMISSAL PROCEDURES


Primary:
* Students should not arrive earlier than 7:20 am.
* If a student is to go home any way other than his/her usual way, a note or phone call from the parent or legal guardian must be received by the teacher or office no later than 2:30, or the STUDENT WILL BE SENT HOME HIS/HER REGULAR WAY.
* Kindergarten parents are not to walk their child to class.
* Bus students will load/unload on the west end in the designated area.  Parents may not walk in between or around buses during loading/unloading.  Afternoon CAT Club students will go to the lunchroom when dismissed from class.  
* Car riders will load/unload at the covered sidewalk in front of the primary building. 
* Parents may not park in the front parking lot and walk their child inside the building during the car line.  Students arriving after 7:55 am must be walked into the office and will be issued a tardy.  This is strictly for the safety of ALL STUDENTS.
* Cars must remain in the car line during drop-off and pick-up.  Cars may not move out of line or pass other cars who may be taking longer.
* Place your vehicle in park when dropping off or picking up students
* Cars must display school-generated name tags in order to pick up students.  Cars will be directed to the parking lot and asked to walk inside if no car tag is present.
* Respect other drivers and teachers on duty in the car line.
* Students will be loaded into the back seat of vehicles only.
* Car tags are printed to the parent/legal guardian only unless noted on the student’s pick up information sheet.
* To be considered a walker, the student must walk to and from HOME with a parent/guardian.
* State law prohibits the use of a cell phone in a school zone.  Tickets may be issued for this infraction.
* After school programs (i.e. karate, gymnastics, private daycares) must have an official business logo displayed on the vehicle and arrive for student pick-up no later than 2:35.  Organizations that are late must go through the car line located in the front of the building.
* After school program van riders will be loaded prior to bus and car riders.  Students may not be taken from an after school program van without first checking in with the office and signing a student out.




Elementary School:
* Pupils should not arrive at school earlier than 7:20 a.m. 
* If a student is to go home any way other than his/her usual way, a note or phone call from the parent or legal guardian must be received by the teacher or office no later than 2:30, or the STUDENT WILL BE SENT HOME HIS/HER REGULAR WAY.
* Parents are not to walk their child to class.
* Bus students will load and unload in the front at the designated area.  Parents may not walk in between or around buses during loading and unloading.  Afternoon C.A.T. Club students will go to the lunchroom when dismissed from class.  
* Car riders will load and unload at the covered sidewalk in back of the elementary building, NOT IN THE FRONT PARKING LOT OR THE CHURCH PARKING LOT; doing so will cause your license plate number to be reported to the local police for ticketing purposes.  This is strictly for the safety of ALL STUDENTS.  
* All students must be dropped off in carline prior to 7:55 AM. Any student dropped off in the front of the building or checked into the office prior to 7:55 AM will be issued a tardy. This is a safety issue and students should be dropped off in the proper area.   This is strictly for the safety of ALL STUDENTS.
* Cars must remain in line during drop-off and pick-up.  Cars may not move out of line to pass cars in front who may be taking longer.  This is for the safety of all students. 
* Make sure cars are in PARK when dropping students off and picking students up.
* Cars must display school-generated name tag in order to pick up students.  Cars will be directed to the front office if no car tag is present.
* Respect other drivers and teachers on duty in the car line.
* Cars may not pass school buses at any time during drop-off and pick-up.
* Students being picked up in the car line will be loaded into the back seat of vehicles only.
* No one is allowed to walk students around to the driver’s side to load or unload.
* Car tags are printed for the parent/legal guardian only unless otherwise noted on student’s pick up information sheet.
* To be considered a walker, the student must walk to and from home with a parent/guardian.
* State law prohibits the use of a cell phone in a school zone. Tickets may be issued for this infraction.
* After school programs (i.e. karate, gymnastics, private daycares) must have an official business logo displayed on the vehicle and arrive for student pick-up no later than 2:45 PM.  Organizations that are late must go through the car line located at the back of the building.
* After school program van riders will be loaded prior to bus and car riders.  Students may not be taken from an after school program van without first checking in at the office and signing the student out.  Attendance policy in regards to checking out early will apply in such circumstances.


Intermediate School:
* Pupils should not arrive at school earlier than 7:15 a.m. 
* If a student is to go home any way other than his/her usual way, a note or phone call from the parent or legal guardian must be received by the teacher or office no later than 2:30, or the STUDENT WILL BE SENT HOME HIS/HER REGULAR WAY.
* Parents are not to walk their child to class.
* Bus students will load and unload in the front at the designated area.   Afternoon C.A.T. Club students will go to the gym when dismissed from class.  
* Car riders will load and unload in the front at the designated area.
* All students must be dropped off in the carline prior to 7:50 AM. 
* Cars must remain in line during drop-off and pick-up.  Cars may not move out of line to pass cars in front who may be taking longer.  This is for the safety of all students. 
* Cars must display school-generated name tags in order to pick up students.  Cars will be directed to the front office if no car tag is present.
* Respect other drivers and teachers on duty in the car line.
* No one is allowed to walk students around to the driver’s side to load or unload.
* Car tags are printed for the parent/legal guardian only unless otherwise noted on the student's pick up information sheet.
* State law prohibits the use of a cell phone in a school zone. Tickets may be issued for this infraction.
* After school programs (i.e. karate, gymnastics, private daycares) will pick up students in the carline.


Middle School:
* If a student is to go home any way other than his/her usual way, a note or phone call from the parent or legal guardian must be received by the teacher or office no later than 2:30, or the STUDENT WILL BE SENT HOME HIS/HER REGULAR WAY.
* Bus students will load and unload in the back at the designated area.
* Car riders will load and unload in front of the Middle School, NOT IN THE PARKING LOT AND NOT BEHIND THE BUILDING; doing so will cause your license plate number to be reported to the local police for ticketing purposes.  This is strictly for the safety of ALL STUDENTS.
* Parents are not to walk their child to class.
* State law prohibits the use of a cell phone in a school zone. Tickets may be issued for this infraction.


Jr. High/High School:
* Bus students will load and unload in the back at the designated area.
* Car riders will load and unload in designated areas in the front of the High School/Junior High, NOT IN THE PARKING LOT AND NOT BEHIND THE BUILDING; doing so will cause your license plate number to be reported to the local police for ticketing purposes.  This is strictly for the safety of ALL STUDENTS.
* State law prohibits the use of a cell phone in a school zone. Tickets may be issued for this infraction.
4.1—RESIDENCE REQUIREMENTS


Definitions
 
“In loco parentis” means relating to the responsibility to undertake the care and control of another person in the absence of:
1. Supervision by the person's parent or legal guardian; and
2. Formal legal approval.


“Reside” means to be physically present and to maintain a permanent place of abode for an average of no fewer than four (4) calendar days and nights per week for a primary purpose other than school attendance.


“Resident” means a student whose parents, legal guardians, persons having lawful control of the student, or persons standing in loco parentis reside in the school district.


“Residential address” means the physical location where the student’s parents, legal guardians, persons having lawful control of the student, or persons standing in loco parentis reside. A student may use the residential address of a parent, legal guardian, person having lawful control of the student, or person standing in loco parentis only if the student resides at the same residential address and if the guardianship or other legal authority is not granted solely for educational needs or school attendance purposes. 


The schools of the District shall be open and free through the completion of the secondary program to all persons between the ages of five (5) and twenty-one (21) years whose parents, legal guardians, persons having lawful control of the student, or person standing in loco parentis reside within the District and to all persons between those ages who have been legally transferred to the District for educational purposes.  


Any person eighteen (18) years of age or older may establish a residence separate and apart from his or her parent, legal guardian, person having lawful control of the student, or a person standing in loco parentis for school attendance purposes. 


In order for a person under the age of eighteen (18) years to establish a residence for the purpose of attending the District’s schools separate and apart from his or her parent, legal guardian, person having lawful control of the student, or a person standing in loco parentis, the student is required to reside in the District for a primary purpose other than that of school attendance.; however, a student previously enrolled in the district whose parents move the student into another district or who is placed under the legal guardianship of a noncustodial parent living outside the district by a custodial parent on active military duty may continue to attend district schools. A foster child who was previously enrolled in a District school and who has had a change in placement to a residence outside the District, may continue to remain enrolled in his/her current school unless the presiding court rules otherwise.


Under instances prescribed in A.C.A. § 6-18-203, a child or ward of an employee of the district or of the education coop to which the district belongs may enroll in the district even though the employee and the employee’s child or ward reside outside the district.


Children whose parent or legal guardian relocates within the state due to a mobilization, deployment, or available military housing while on active duty in or serving in the reserve component of a branch of the United States Armed Forces or National Guard may continue attending school in the school district the children were attending prior to the relocation or attend school in the school district where the children have relocated. A child may complete all remaining school years at the enrolled school district regardless of mobilization, deployment, or military status of the parent or guardian.
 
 Last Revised:6/5/23














4.02—ENTRANCE REQUIREMENTS


To enroll in a school in the Brookland District, the child must: 
1. Be a resident of the District as defined in District policy (4.1—RESIDENCE REQUIREMENTS); 
2. Meet the criteria outlined in Policy: 
   * 4.40—HOMELESS STUDENTS; or 
   * 4.52—STUDENTS WHO ARE FOSTER CHILDREN; 
3. Be accepted as a transfer student under the provisions of policy 4.4; or 
4. Participate under a school choice option and submit the required paperwork as required by the choice option under Policy 4.5. 
A student may enter kindergarten if the student: 
* Meets one of the requirements for school attendance of A through D above; and 
* Falls under one of the following: 
   * Will attain the age of five (5) on or before August 1 of the year in which the student is seeking initial enrollment; or 
   * Has been enrolled in a state-accredited or state-approved kindergarten program in another state for at least sixty (60) days and: 
      * Will become five (5) years old during the year in which the student is enrolled in kindergarten; and 
      * Submits a written request for enrollment to the District; or 
   * Was enrolled in a state-accredited or state-approved kindergarten program in another state or in a kindergarten program equivalent in another country and: 
      * Becomes a resident of this state as a direct result of active military orders or a court-ordered change of custody; 
      * Will become five (5) years of age during the year in which the student is enrolled in kindergarten; and 
      * Submits a written request for enrollment to the District. 
Any child who will be six (6) years of age on or before October 1 of the school year of enrollment and who has not completed a state-accredited kindergarten program shall be evaluated by the district and may be placed in the first grade if the results of the evaluation justify placement in the first grade and the child’s parent or legal guardian agrees with placement in the first grade; otherwise the child shall be placed in kindergarten. 


Any child may enter first grade in a District school if the child will attain six (6) years of age during the school year in which the child is seeking enrollment and the child has successfully completed a kindergarten program in a public school in Arkansas. 


Any child who has been enrolled in the first grade in a state-accredited or state-approved elementary school in another state for a period of at least sixty (60) days, who will become six (6) years of age during the school year in which the student is enrolled in grade one (1), and who meets the basic residency requirements for school attendance may be enrolled in the first grade. 


Students who move into the District from an accredited school shall be assigned to the same grade as they were attending in their previous school (mid-year transfers) or as they would have been assigned in their previous school. Private school students shall be evaluated by the District to determine their appropriate grade placement. Home school students enrolling or re-enrolling as a public school student shall be placed in accordance with policy 4.6—HOME SCHOOLING. 


The district shall make no attempt to ascertain the immigration status, legal or illegal, of any student or the student’s parent or legal guardian presenting for enrollment.
 Prior to the child’s admission to a District school: 
1. The parent, legal guardian, person having lawful control of the student, or person standing in loco parentis shall furnish the child’s social security number, or if they request, the district will assign the child a nine (9) digit number designated by the Division of Elementary and Secondary education. 
2. The parent, legal guardian, person having lawful control of the student, or person standing in loco parentis shall provide the district with one (1) of the following documents indicating the child’s age: 
   1. A birth certificate; 
   2. A statement by the local registrar or a county recorder certifying the child’s date of birth; 
   3. An attested baptismal certificate; 
   4. A passport; 
   5. An affidavit of the date and place of birth by the child’s parent, legal guardian, person having lawful control of the student, or person standing in loco parentis; 
   6. United States military identification; or 
   7. Previous school records. 
3. The parent, legal guardian, person having lawful control of the student, or person standing in loco parentis shall indicate on school registration forms whether the child has been expelled from school in any other school district or is a party to an expulsion proceeding. Any person who has been expelled from any other school district shall receive a hearing before the Board at the time the student is seeking enrollment in the District. The Board reserves the right to not allow the enrollment of such students until the time of the person's expulsion has expired following the hearing before the Board. 
4. In accordance with Policy 4.57—IMMUNIZATIONS, the child shall be age appropriately immunized or have an exemption issued by the Arkansas Department of Health. 
Uniformed Services Member's Children 


For the purposes of this policy: 


“Activated reserve components” means members of the reserve component of the uniformed services who have received a notice of intent to deploy or mobilize under Title 10 of the United States Code, Title 32 of the United States Code, or state mobilization to active duty. 


“Active duty” means full-time duty status in the active, uniformed services of the United States, including without limitation members of The National Guard and Reserve on active duty orders under 10 U.S.C. chapters 1209 and 1211 or 42 U.S.C. § 204. 


“Deployment” means a period of time extending from six (6) months before a member of the uniformed services' departure from their home station on military orders through six (6) months after return to the Uniformed Services member’s home station. 


"Dual status military technician" means a federal civilian employee who is: 
Employed under 5 U.S.C. § 3101 or 32 U.S.C. § 709(b); 
Required as a condition of employment to maintain membership in the Selected Reserve; and 
Assigned to a civilian position as a technician in the organizing, administering, instructing, or training of the Selected Reserve or in the maintenance and repair of supplies or equipment issued to the Selected Reserve of the United States Armed Forces. 
 “Eligible child” means the children of: 
Active duty members of the uniformed services; 
Members of the active and activated reserve components of the uniformed services; 
Veterans of the uniformed services who are injured in the line of duty and medically separated or retired; 
Members of the uniformed services who die on active duty or as a result of injuries sustained on active duty; 
Dual status military technicians; and 
Traditional members of the National Guard and reserve components of the armed forces who are relocating to the state for employment or to serve as a member of an Arkansas-based reserve component unit. 
"Traditional member of the National Guard or federal reserves" means an active member of the Selected Reserve subject to mobilization and deployment for which the member attends monthly and annual training periods. 


“Transition” means the: 
Formal and physical process of transitioning from public school to public school; or 
Period of time in which a student moves from a sending district to a receiving district. 
“Uniformed services” means the United States Army, United States Navy, United States Air Force, United States Marine Corps, United States Space Force, United States Coast Guard, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Commissioned Officer Corps, the United States Commissioned Corps of the Public Health Services, and the state and federal reserve components of each of these bodies. 


“Veteran” means an individual who served in the uniformed services and who was discharged or released from the uniformed services under conditions other than dishonorable. 


The superintendent shall designate an individual as the District’s military education coordinator, who shall serve as the primary point of contact for an eligible child and for the eligible child’s parent, legal guardian, person having lawful control of the eligible child, or person standing in loco parentis. The individual the superintendent designates as the District’s military education coordinator shall possess specialized knowledge regarding the educational needs and unique challenges faced by children of uniformed services families.
An eligible child as defined in this policy shall: 
Be allowed to continue the student’s enrollment at the grade level commensurate with the student’s grade level the student was in at the time of transition from the student’s previous school, regardless of age; 
Be eligible for enrollment in the next highest grade level, regardless of age if the student has satisfactorily completed the prerequisite grade level in the student’s previous school; 
Enter the District's school on the validated level from the student’s previous accredited school when transferring into the District after the start of the school year; 
Be enrolled in courses and programs the same as or similar to the ones the student was enrolled in the student’s previous school to the extent that space is available. This does not prohibit the District from performing subsequent evaluations to ensure appropriate placement and continued enrollment of the student in the courses/and/or programs; 
Be provided services comparable to those the student with disabilities received in the student’s previous school based on the student’s previous Individualized Education Program (IEP). This does not preclude the District school from performing subsequent evaluations to ensure appropriate placement of the student; 
Make reasonable accommodations and modifications to address the needs of an incoming student with disabilities, subject to an existing 504 or Title II Plan, necessary to provide the student with equal access to education. This does not preclude the District school from performing subsequent evaluations to ensure appropriate placement of the student; 
Be enrolled by an individual who has been given the special power of attorney for the student's guardianship. The individual shall have the power to take all other actions requiring parental participation and/or consent; 
Be eligible to continue attending District schools if the student has been placed under the legal guardianship of a noncustodial parent living outside the district by a custodial parent on active military duty. 
Following the receipt of advanced notice and an enrollment application of an eligible student from a military family, the District shall: 
Provisionally enroll, provide placement for, and enter academic course requests on behalf of the incoming student based on the student's education record provided by the student’s family or the sending district; 
Provide the uniformed services family with information regarding: 
Career-ready pathways and other academic or education programs offered; 
Required academic courses for each curriculum and elective course options; 
School and community-sponsored extracurricular activities, including without limitation individual and team sports, clubs, junior reserve officer training corps opportunities, and Purple Star School program ambassadors; and 
Contact information for the designated military family education coordinator and the Purple Star School program military family education facilitator, if applicable; and 
Other relevant information regarding the District. 
In the event that official copies of an eligible child’s education records are not available at the time the eligible child is transferring, then the District shall: 
Pre-register and place an eligible child based on the eligible child’s unofficial education records pending receipt of the eligible child’s official records; and 
Request the eligible child’s official education records from the sending district. 
The District shall not deny the enrollment of a Uniformed Service Member dependent unless the District has reached the maximum student-to-teacher ratio allowed under federal law; state law; the Standards for Accreditation for Public Schools and School Districts; state rules; or other applicable federal regulations, and the District timely notifies the parent, legal guardian, person having lawful control of the student, or person standing in loco parentis of the lack of capacity. 


The District shall notify a prospective student's family in writing regarding whether the student's enrollment has been accepted or rejected within fifteen (15) calendar days of receiving the student's enrollment application and supporting documentation. 


To facilitate a smooth transition between the student’s previous coursework and the curriculum best suited to ensure educational success in the student’s new school, the District may enroll an inbound transitioning eligible student in digital coursework, if available, at the request of the military family. 


The District may request a waiver from the State Board as necessary to accommodate an eligible student. 


 International Exchange Students 


"Host family" means the individual or family with whom an international exchange student is placed by an international student exchange visitor placement organization under the International Student Exchange Visitor Placement Organization Registration Act, § 6-18-1701 et seq.. 


"International exchange student" means a student who is placed with a host family by an international student exchange visitor placement organization under the International Student Exchange Visitor Placement Organization Registration Act, § 6-18-1701 et seq.. 


Before an international exchange student may attend a District school, the District requires all international student exchange visitor placement organizations that are placing international exchange students within the District to: 
* Be certified by the Council on Standards for International Educational Travel; 
* Provide documented proof of the international exchange student's English proficiency; and 
* Notify the District at least three (3) weeks before the beginning of the academic semester the international exchange student plans to enroll in the District. 
The District shall admit for enrollment and attendance an international exchange student who has been placed with a host family who resides within the District boundaries. The international exchange student shall attend the school in the District based on the attendance zone where the host family resides. 


Upon an international exchange student’s arrival, the international exchange student may be required to submit to quarantine to prevent the spread of infectious diseases as may be necessary, which shall not exceed seven (7) days unless otherwise recommended by the Arkansas Department of Health or the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
 
International exchange students are expected to follow the District handbook and student code of conduct as the District has the authority to expel a student for violations of the school district's written student discipline policies or if the international exchange student presents a danger to the District’s students or employees. 


Statewide assessment results achieved by an international exchange student enrolled in the District shall be included in the District’s results on the statewide assessments.
The District shall provide English-language services to international exchange students as necessary. 


 Last Revised: June 2026


4.3—COMPULSORY ATTENDANCE REQUIREMENTS


Every parent, legal guardian, person having lawful control of the child, or person standing in loco parentis of any child age five (5) through seventeen (17) years on or before August 1 of that year who resides, as defined by policy (4.1—RESIDENCE REQUIREMENTS), within the District shall enroll the child and ensure the attendance of the child at a District school with the following exceptions:
1. The child is enrolled in private or parochial school.
2. The child is being home-schooled and the conditions of policy (4.6—HOME SCHOOLING) have been met.
3. The child will not be age six (6) on or before August 1 of that particular school year and the parent, legal guardian, person having lawful control of the child, or person standing in loco parentis of the child elects not to have the child attend kindergarten. A kindergarten waiver form prescribed by regulation of the Division of Elementary and Secondary Education must be signed and on file with the District administrative office.
4.   The child has received a high school diploma, GED, or its equivalent as determined by the State Board of Education.
5.   The child is age sixteen (16) or above and is enrolled in a post-secondary vocational-technical institution, a community college, or a two-year or four-year institution of higher education.
6.  The child is age sixteen (16) or seventeen (17) and has met the requirements to enroll in an adult education program as defined by A.C.A. § 6-18-201 (b).
 
 Last Revised:7/1/2019
4.04—STUDENT TRANSFERS


Transfer applications received by the District shall be placed on the Board’s next meeting agenda. At least five (5) days before the meeting where the transfer application appears on the agenda, the superintendent shall notify the Board regarding: 
* All transfer applications received since the last meeting; and 
* The superintendent’s recommendation concerning each transfer application. 
Each transfer application shall be considered individually and receive a separate vote by the Board. The parent, legal guardian, person having lawful control of the student, or person standing in loco parentis to a student who submits a transfer application shall be given at least five (5) minutes to present the student's case for a transfer to the Board. 


The Board may reject a nonresident’s application for admission if its acceptance would necessitate the addition of staff or classrooms; exceed the capacity of a program, class, grade level, or school building; or cause the District to provide educational services not currently provided in the affected school. The District shall reject applications that would cause it to be out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations regarding desegregation. 


If the superintendent intends to recommend the Board deny the transfer application, the superintendent shall provide a written explanation of the reasons for the recommendation to the Board and the parent, legal guardian, person having lawful control of the student, or person standing in loco parentis to the student. 


 The parent, legal guardian, person having lawful control of a student, or person standing in loco parentis to the student who submitted a transfer application that was rejected may appeal the decision of the Board to the State Board of Education. 


Any student transferring to a District school shall be evaluated by District staff, including a review of a student’s transcript, grades, course credits, and test scores, to determine the student’s appropriate grade placement. Any grades, course credits, and/or promotions received by a student while enrolled in the Division of Youth Services system of education shall be considered transferable in the same manner as those grades, course credits, and promotions from other accredited Arkansas public educational entities. A student transferring from home school will be placed in accordance with Policy 4.6—HOME SCHOOLING. 


Any person who has been expelled from any other school district shall receive a hearing before the Board at the time the student is seeking enrollment in the District. The Board reserves the right to not allow the enrollment of such students until the time of the person's expulsion has expired following the hearing before the Board. 


Except as otherwise required or permitted by law, the responsibility for transportation of any nonresident student admitted to a school in this District shall be borne by the student or the student’s parents. The District and the resident district may enter into a written agreement with the student or student’s parents to provide transportation to or from the District, or both. 






Last Revised:July 2026


4.05—SCHOOL CHOICE
Exemption 


The District is under an enforceable desegregation court order/court-approved desegregation plan1 that explicitly limits the transfer of students between school districts and has submitted the appropriate documentation to the Division of Elementary and Secondary Education (DESE). As a result of the desegregation order/desegregation plan, the District is exempt from the provisions of the Public School Choice Act of 2015 (Standard School Choice) and the Arkansas Opportunity Public School Choice Act (Opportunity School Choice). The District shall notify the superintendents of each of its geographically contiguous school districts of its exemption. The exemption prohibits the District from accepting any school choice applications from students wishing to transfer into or out of the District through standard School Choice or Opportunity School Choice. 


Definitions 


“Lack of capacity” means, based on the maximum student to teacher ratio allowed under federal law; state law; the Rules Governing the Standards for Accreditation for Arkansas Public Schools and School Districts; state rules; or other applicable federal regulations, that ninety-five percent (95%) or more of the seats at the grade level in which the student would be assigned at the nonresident school are filled on the date the school choice application is made. 


“Parent” includes parents, legal guardians, persons having lawful control of a student, and persons standing in loco parentis to a student. 


"Sibling" means each of two (2) or more children having a parent in common by blood, adoption, marriage, or foster care. 


Annual Reporting
The District shall report annually to the Secretary of the Department of Education the: 
1. Number of transfer applications received; 
2. Number of applications accepted; 
3. Number of applications rejected; and 
4. Reason(s) for each rejection. 
The data for items one through four above shall be subdivided by whether the transfer application is to a non-resident: 
* School within the District under Standard School Choice; 
* District under Standard School Choice; 
* School within the District under Opportunity School Choice; or 
* District under Opportunity School Choice. 
Standard School Choice 


Transfers into or Within the District 


Capacity Determination and Public Pronouncement 


The Board of Directors will annually adopt a resolution containing the capacity standards for the District. The resolution will contain the acceptance determination criteria identified by academic program, class, grade level, and individual school. The school is not obligated to add any teachers, other staff, or classrooms to accommodate choice applications. The District may only deny a Standard School Choice application if the District or school has a lack of capacity. 


The District shall advertise in appropriate broadcast media and either print media or on the internet to inform students and parents in the District and adjoining districts of the range of possible openings available under the School Choice program. The public pronouncements shall state the application deadline; the requirements and procedures for participation in the program; and include contact information for the primary point of contact at the District for school choice questions. Such pronouncements shall be made no later than January 1.
Application Process 


The student's parent shall submit a school choice application on a form approved by DESE to: 
* This District and the student's resident district for students transferring into the District; or 
* Only this District for students transferring to another school within the District. 
Except for students who are transferring under Uniformed Service Member Dependent School Choice, the transfer application must be postmarked, emailed, or hand delivered between January 1 and June 1. The District shall date and time stamp all applications the District receives as both the resident and nonresident district as they are received in the District's central office. Except for applications from students who are transferring under Uniformed Service Member Dependent School Choice, applications postmarked, emailed, or hand delivered on or after June 2 will not be accepted. Statutorily, preference is required to be given to siblings of students who are already enrolled in the District. Therefore, siblings whose applications fit the capacity standards approved by the Board of Directors may be approved ahead of an otherwise qualified non-sibling applicant who submitted an earlier application as identified by the application's date and time stamp. 


Except for students who are transferring under Uniformed Service Member Dependent School Choice, no earlier than January 1 of each year, the Superintendent will consider all properly submitted applications for School Choice. By no later than the fifteenth (15th) calendar day following the receipt of an application, the Superintendent shall notify the following, in writing, of the decision to accept or reject the application: 
* For transfers within the District, the student’s parent; or 
* For transfers into the District, the student’s parent and the student’s resident district. 
Accepted Applications 


Applications which fit within the District's stated capacity standards shall be provisionally accepted in writing. A student’s acceptance shall be effective on the earlier of: 
1. The day the District provides notification to the student of the student’s acceptance; or 
2. The day the State Board grants an appeal of the student’s application. 
The written notice of acceptance shall inform the student that the student has ten (10) school days from when the notice is received to either: 
1. Enroll in the district or in the other District school; or 
2. Inform the district that the student intends to enroll in the district or the other District school at the start of the next school year. 
The acceptance shall be null and void if the student fails to enroll within the ten (10) school day period or fails to inform the district within the ten (10) school day period of the student’s intent to transfer at the start of the next school year. 


A student, whose application has been accepted and who has enrolled in the District or in another District school, is eligible to continue enrollment until completing the student’s secondary education. Continued enrollment is conditioned upon the student meeting applicable statutory and District policy requirements. Any student who has been accepted under choice and who fails to initially enroll under the timelines and provisions provided in this policy; chooses to return to the student’s resident district or assigned school; or enrolls in a home school or private school voids the transfer and must reapply if, in the future, the student seeks another school choice transfer. A subsequent transfer application will be subject to the capacity standards applicable to the year in which the application is considered by the District. 


A present or future sibling of a student who continues enrollment in this District may enroll in the District by submitting a Standard School Choice application. Applications of siblings of presently enrolled choice students are subject to the provisions of this policy including the capacity standards applicable to the year in which the sibling's application is considered by the District. A sibling who enrolls in the District through Standard School Choice is eligible to remain in the District until completion of the student’s secondary education. 


Students whose applications have been accepted and who have enrolled in the district or another District school shall not be discriminated against on the basis of gender, national origin, race, ethnicity, religion, disability, or residential address. 


Rejected Applications 


The District may reject an application for a transfer into or within the District under Standard School Choice due to a lack of capacity. The District shall use the date and time stamp the District placed on a student’s application to determine when the District has reached capacity. A student’s application shall be used to determine capacity regardless of whether the student intends to transfer immediately or at the start of the next school year.  


The decision to accept or reject an application shall not be based on the student’s previous academic achievement; athletic or other extracurricular ability; English proficiency level; or previous disciplinary proceedings other than a current expulsion.
An application may be provisionally rejected if it is for an opening that was included in the District's capacity resolution, but was provisionally filled by an earlier applicant. A provisionally rejected applicant could be provisionally approved and would have to meet the acceptance requirements to be eligible to enroll in the District or another district school if: 
* A provisionally approved applicant subsequently does not enroll in the District; 
* A provisionally approved applicant subsequently does not enroll in the District school the District student was seeking to transfer to; or 
* A District student submits a school choice application to transfer to another district or another school within the District. 
The superintendent shall notify the previously provisionally rejected student within fifteen (15) days of the change in status and shall provide notice of all final rejections by July 1. 


Rejection of applications shall be in writing and shall state the reason(s) for the rejection. Unless the student’s application was rejected due to the application not being timely received by the student’s resident district only for transfers within the District or both the resident and nonresident districts for transfers into the District or another district, a student whose application was rejected may request a hearing before the State Board of Education to reconsider the application. The request for a hearing must be submitted in writing to the State Board within ten (10) days of receiving the rejection letter from the District. 


Transfers Out of the District 


All Standard School Choice applications for transfers out of the District shall be granted. 


Facilities Distress School Choice Applications 


There are a few exceptions from the provisions of the rest of this policy that govern choice transfers triggered by facilities distress. Any student attending a school district that has been identified as being in facilities distress may transfer under the provisions of this policy, but with the following four (4) differences: 
* The receiving district cannot be in facilities distress; 
* The transfer is only available for the duration of the time the student's resident district remains in facilities distress; 
* The student is not required to meet the June 1 application deadline; and 
* The student's resident district is responsible for the cost of transporting the student to this District's school. 
Opportunity School Choice 


Transfers Into or Within the District 


Unless there is a lack of capacity at the District’s school or the transfer conflicts with the provisions of a federal desegregation order applicable to the District, a student may transfer from the student’s assigned school to another school in the District or from the student’s resident district into the District if: 
* Either: 
   * The student’s resident district has been classified by the state board as in need of Level 5 — intensive support; or 
   * The student’s assigned school has a rating of "F"; or 
   * The parent or the student, if the student is eighteen (18) years of age or older, believes it is in the best interest of the student to transfer to a nonresident school district or nonresident school; and 
* Except for students who are transferring under Uniformed Service Member Dependents School Choice, the student’s parent or the student if the student is over eighteen (18) years of age has submitted an application of the student’s request to transfer by no earlier than January 1 and no later than June 1 of the school year before the school year the student intends to transfer to the District for students transferring within the District or both the sending and receiving school districts for students that are transferring into the District. 
Except for students who are transferring under Uniformed Service Members Dependent School Choice or seeking to transfer within the District, the Superintendent shall notify in writing the parent, or the student if the student is over eighteen (18) years of age, and the student’s resident district whether the Opportunity School Choice application has been accepted or rejected by no later than July 1 of the school year the student is seeking to enroll. If the student is seeking a transfer within the District, the Superintendent shall notify in writing the parent, or the student if the student is over eighteen (18) years of age, whether the Opportunity School Choice application has been accepted or rejected within fifteen (15) days from receipt of the student’s application. The notification shall be sent via First-Class Mail to the address on the application. 


If the application is accepted, the notification letter shall state the deadline by which the student must enroll in the receiving school or the transfer will be null and void. 


If the District rejects the application, the District shall state in the notification letter the specific reasons for the rejection. Unless the student’s application was rejected due to the application not being timely received by the District for students transferring within the District or both the resident and nonresident districts for students that are transferring into the District, a parent or guardian, or the student if the student is over eighteen (18) years of age, may appeal the District’s decision to deny the application to the State Board of Education. The appeal must be in writing to the State Board of Education via hand delivery or certified mail, return receipt requested, no later than ten (10) calendar days, excluding weekends and legal holidays, after the notice of rejection was received from the District. 


Except for students who are transferring under Uniformed Service Member Dependent School Choice, a student’s transfer under Opportunity School choice is effective at the beginning of the next school year and the student’s enrollment is irrevocable for the duration of the school year and is renewable until the student completes high school or is beyond the legal age of enrollment. This provision for continuing eligibility under Opportunity School Choice does not negate the student's right to apply for transfer to a district other than the student's assigned school or resident district under the Standard School Choice provisions of this policy. 


The District may, but is not obligated to, provide transportation to and from the transferring district. 


Transfers out of, or within, the District
If a District school receives a rating of “F” or the District has been classified by the State Board as in need of Level 5 Intensive Support, the District shall timely notify parents or students, if over eighteen (18) years of age, as soon as practicable after the school or district designation is made of all options available under Opportunity School Choice. The District shall offer the parent, or the student if the student is over eighteen (18) years of age, an opportunity to submit an application to enroll the student in: 
1. A school district that has not been classified by the State Board as in need of Level 5 Intensive Support; or 
2. If there is more than one school within the District covering the grade level of the student seeking to transfer that does not have a rating of “F”, a public school within the District that is nearest to the student’s legal residence that does not have a rating of “F”; or 
3. If there is not more than one school within the District covering the grade level of the student seeking to transfer that does not have a rating of “F”, a public school that does not have a rating of “F” within a School district that has not been classified by the State Board as in need of Level 5 Intensive Support. 
Additionally, the District shall request public service announcements to be made over the broadcast media and in the print media at such times and in such a manner as to inform parents of students in adjoining districts of the availability of the program, the application deadline, and the requirements and procedure for nonresident students to participate in the program.
Uniformed Service Member Dependent School Choice 
"Uniformed service member" means an active or reserve component member of the: 
* United States Army, United States Navy, United States Air Force, United States Marine Corps, United States Space Force, or United States Coast Guard; 
* National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Commissioned Officer Corps; or 
* United States Commissioned Corps of the Public Health Service. 
"Uniformed service veteran" means a former uniformed service member who has been discharged under conditions other than dishonorable. 


A student shall be eligible for school choice under Uniformed Service Member Dependent School Choice if the student is a dependent of a: 
* Uniformed service member in full-time active-duty status; 
* Surviving spouse of a uniformed service member; 
* Reserve component uniformed service member during the period six (6) months before until six (6) months after a Title 10, Title 32, or state active duty mobilization and service; or 
* Uniformed service veteran who is returning to civilian status at the conclusion of the uniformed service veteran's active duty status. 
A student's parent shall submit a school choice application by mail, e-mail, or in person to the student’s resident district only for transfers within the District or to both the student's nonresident district and resident district. The application shall be accompanied by: 
1. A copy of the identification card of the student's parent that qualifies the student under Uniformed Service Member Dependent School Choice; and 
2. A copy of the official orders, assignment notification, or notice of mobilization of the student's parent. 
The application deadline required under Standard School Choice and Opportunity School Choice shall not apply to uniformed service member dependents. 


The parent shall be notified in writing whether the student’s application has been accepted or rejected within fifteen (15) days of the receipt of the application by: 
1. The District superintendent for students transferring within the District; or 
2. The superintendent of the nonresident district for student’s transferring to a nonresident district. 
A student’s transfer under the Uniformed Services Member Dependent School Choice is effective immediately upon the written notification of acceptance. 


A student shall be permitted only one (1) school transfer per academic year. 


A student’s parent shall be responsible for transportation of the student. 


Unsafe School Choice Program 


Any student that becomes the victim of a violent criminal offense while in or on the grounds of a District school or who is attending a school classified by DESE as a persistently dangerous public school shall be allowed to attend a safe public school within the District. 


Last Revised: June 2026


4.6—HOMESCHOOLING


Enrollment in Home School
Parents or legal guardians desiring to provide a home school for their children shall give written notice to the Superintendent of their intent to homeschool. The notice shall be given:
1.   At the beginning of each school year, but no later than August 15;
2.   Five (5) school days prior to withdrawing the child (provided the student is not currently under disciplinary action for violation of any written school policy, including, but not limited to, excessive absences) and at the beginning of each school year thereafter; or
3.   Within thirty (30) calendar days of the parent or legal guardian establishing residency within the district during the school year.
 
Written notice of the parent or legal guardian’s intent to homeschool shall be delivered to the Superintendent through any of the following methods:
·                                         Electronically, including without limitation by:
§          Use of the Division of Elementary and Secondary Education’s (DESE) online system;
§          Email; or
§          Facsimile;
·     By mail; or
·   In person.
 
The notice shall include:
a.   The name, sex, date of birth, grade level, and the name and address of the school last attended, if any;
b. The mailing address and telephone number of the home school;
c.    The name of the parent or legal guardian providing the home school;
d.    Indicate if the home-schooled student intends to participate in extracurricular activities during the school year;
e.    A statement of whether the home-schooled student plans to seek a high school equivalency diploma during the current school year;
f.    A statement that the parent or legal guardian agrees that the parent or legal guardian is responsible for the education of their children during the time the parents or legal guardians choose to homeschool; and
g. A signature of the parent or legal guardian.
 To aid the District in providing a free and appropriate public education to students in need of special education services, the parents or legal guardians home-schooling their children shall provide information that might indicate the need for special education services.
 A student who has been temporarily issued items, resources, supplies, materials, or other property belonging to the District is eligible for enrollment in a home school during the school year after:
o          The items, resources, supplies, materials, or other property belonging to the District have been returned to the District;
o          The items, resources, supplies, materials, or other property belonging to the District have been paid for; or
o          The semester has ended.
The superintendent or the board of directors may waive the required five (5) school day waiting period for a student’s enrollment in home school during a semester if the superintendent or the board of directors is satisfied with the return of temporarily issued items, resources, supplies, materials, or other District property .
 
Enrollment or Re-Enrollment in Public School
A home-schooled student who wishes to enroll or re-enroll in a District school shall submit:
·  A transcript listing all courses taken and semester grades from the home school;
·   Score of at least the thirtieth percentile on a nationally recognized norm-referenced assessment taken in the past year; and
·  A portfolio of indicators of the home-schooled student's academic progress, including without limitation:
o          Curricula used in the home school;
o          Tests taken and lessons completed by the home-schooled student; and
o          Other indicators of the home-schooled student's academic progress.
 
If a home-schooled student is unable to provide a nationally recognized norm-referenced score, the District may either assess the student using a nationally recognized norm-referenced assessment or waive the requirement for a nationally recognized norm-referenced assessment score.
 
A home-schooled student who enrolls or re-enrolls in the District will be placed at a grade level and academic course level equivalent to or higher than the home-schooled student's grade level and academic course level in the home school:
1.  As indicated by the documentation submitted by the home-schooled student;
2.  By mutual agreement between the public school and the home-schooled student's parent or legal guardian; or
3.   If the home-schooled student fails to provide the documentation required by this policy, with the exception of the nationally recognized norm-referenced assessment score, the District may have sole authority to determine the home-schooled student's grade placement and course credits. The District will determine the home-schooled student’s grade placement and course credits in the same manner the District uses when determining grade placement and course credits for students enrolling or re-enrolling in the District who attended another public or private school.
 The District shall afford a home-schooled student who enrolls or re-enrolls in a public school the same rights and privileges enjoyed by the District’s other students. The District shall not deny a home-schooled student who enrolls or re-enrolls in the District any of the following on the basis of the student having attended a home school:
a.   Award of course credits earned in the home school;
b.   Placement in the proper grade level and promotion to the next grade level;
c.  Participation in any academic or extracurricular activity;
d.  Membership in school-sponsored clubs, associations, or organizations;
e.   A diploma or graduation, so long as the student has enrolled or re-enrolled in the District to attend classes for at least the nine (9) months immediately prior to graduation; or
f.   Scholarships.
Updated 7/1/21


4.7—ABSENCES




If any student’s Individual Education Program (IEP) or 504 Plan conflicts with this policy, the requirements of the student’s IEP or 504 Plan take precedence.


Education is more than the grades students receive in their courses. Important as that is, students’ regular attendance at school, whether in person or digitally, is essential to their social and cultural development and helps prepare them to accept responsibilities they will face as an adult. Interactions with other students and participation in the instruction within the classroom enrich the learning environment and promote a continuity of instruction which results in higher student achievement.


Absences for students enrolled in synchronous digital courses shall be determined in the same manner as for District students attending courses in person.


Excused Absences


Excused absences are those where the student was on official school business or when the absence was due to one of the following reasons:
1. The student’s illness or when attendance could jeopardize the health of other students. A maximum of six (6) such days are allowed per semester unless the condition(s) causing such absences is of a chronic or recurring nature, is medically documented, and approved by the principal.
2. Death or serious illness in their immediate family;
3. Observance of recognized holidays observed by the student's faith;
4. Attendance at an appointment with a government agency;
5. Attendance at a medical appointment;
6. Exceptional circumstances with prior approval of the principal;
7. Participation in an FFA, FHA, or 4-H sanctioned activity;
8. Participation in the election poll workers program for high school students.
9. Absences granted to allow a student to visit his/her parent or legal guardian who is a member of the military and been called to active duty, is on leave from active duty, or has returned from deployment to a combat zone or combat support posting. The number of additional excused absences shall be at the discretion of the superintendent or designee.
10. Absences granted, at the Superintendent's discretion, to seventeen (17) year-old students who join the Arkansas National Guard while in eleventh grade to complete basic combat training between grades eleven (11) and (12).
11. Absences for students excluded from school by the Arkansas Department of Health during a disease outbreak because the student has an immunization waiver or whose immunizations are not up to date.
12. Absences due to conditions related to pregnancy or parenting, including without limitation:
* Labor, delivery, and recovery;
* Prenatal and postnatal medical appointments and other medically necessary, pregnancy-related absences;
* The illness or medical appointment of a child belonging to a parent who is enrolled at a District school;
* A legal appointment related to pregnancy or parenting, including without limitation:
* Adoption;
* Custody; and
* Visitation;
* A reasonable amount of time to accommodate a lactating student’s need to express breast milk or to breastfeed the student’s child on the District’s campus; and
* At least ten (10) school days of absences for both a parenting mother and a parenting father after the birth of a child.
13.         Absences for a student who is the child of a fallen service member or fallen first responder:
·           Due to a mental health concern; or
·           To attend an event from a sponsoring organization that provides support to families of fallen service members or first responders or provides support for traumatic loss, grief, or resiliency.
14.         Upon the written consent of a student’s parent, legal guardian, person having lawful control of the student, or person standing in loco parentis to the student, the District shall grant an excused absence for the following purposes:
·                 Social or public policy advocacy; or
·                 Attempts to influence legislation or other governmental policy-making at the local, state, or federal level.
 
Students who serve as pages for a member of the General Assembly shall be considered on instructional assignment and shall not be considered absent from school for the day the student is serving as a page.7
 Up to one (1) time during each scheduled election, a student shall not be considered absent from school for the time the student accompanies the student's parent when the parent is exercising the parent’s right to vote in a scheduled election.
 In order for the absence to be considered excused, the student must:
a.               Bring a written statement to the principal or designee upon the student’s return to school from the student’s parent, legal guardian, or treating physician stating the reason for the student’s absence;
b.               If the student is attending the District’s courses digitally, upload a written statement from the student’s parent, legal guardian, or treating physician stating the reason for the student’s absence through the District’s digital course management platform for review by the principal or designee; or
c.               Provide documentation as proof of a student's participation in an activity or program scheduled and approved by the 4-H program that is provided by a 4-H county extension agent, 4-H educator, or other appropriate entity associated with the 4-H activity or program.; or
d.               The student's parent, legal guardian, person having lawful control of the student, or person standing in loco parentis to the student provides written documentation that the student's absence is to attend an event from a sponsoring organization that:
o           Provides support to families of fallen service members or first responders or provides support for traumatic loss, grief, or resiliency; and
o   May be verified as an organization that provides support to the military and first responder community by reviewing the Resources Page for Military Family Engagement on the Department of Education website.
A written statement presented or uploaded for an absence having occurred more than five (5) school days prior to its presentation or upload will not be accepted.
 
A student shall not be eligible to receive an excused absence for #13 above if:
§     The student is not in good academic standing;
§     The student does not have a prior record of good attendance; or
§     The absence occurs during a date on which standardized testing is administered.
 
The District shall annually provide a report by June 30 to the Division of Elementary and Secondary Education that contains the following:
·                 The number of absences requested under number 14;
·                 The number of absences granted under number 14; and
·                 The stated purposes of the absence.




Students who serve as pages for a member of the General Assembly shall be considered on instructional assignment and shall not be considered absent from school for the day the student is serving as a page.


Up to one (1) time during each scheduled election, a student shall not be considered absent from school for the time the student accompanies the student's parent when the parent is exercising the parent’s right to vote in a scheduled election.


In order for the absence to be considered excused, the student must:
1. Bring a written statement to the principal or designee upon the student’s return to school from the student’s parent, legal guardian, or treating physician stating the reason for the student’s absence;
2. If the student is attending the District’s courses digitally, upload a written statement from the student’s parent, legal guardian, or treating physician stating the reason for the student’s absence through the District’s digital course management platform for review by the principal or designee.; or
3. Provide documentation as proof of a student's participation in an activity or program scheduled and approved by the 4-H program that is provided by a 4-H county extension agent, 4-H educator, or other appropriate entity associated with the 4-H activity or program.
A written statement presented or uploaded for an absence having occurred more than five (5) school days prior to its presentation or upload will not be accepted.


Unexcused Absences


Absences that are not defined above; do not have an accompanying note from the parent, legal guardian, person having lawful control of the student, person standing in loco parentis, the student’s treating physician, or a 4-H county extension agent, 4-H educator, or other appropriate entity associated with the 4-H activity or program; or have an accompanying note that is not presented or uploaded within the timeline required by this policy shall be considered as unexcused absences. Students with 10 unexcused absences in a course in a semester may not receive credit for that course. At the discretion of the principal after consultation with persons having knowledge of the circumstances of the unexcused absences, the student may be denied promotion or graduation. Excessive absences shall not be a reason for expulsion or dismissal of a student.


When a student has 3, 5, and 6 unexcused absences, his/her parents, legal guardians, persons with lawful control of the student, or persons standing in loco parentis shall be notified. Notification shall be by telephone by the end of the school day in which such absence occurred or by regular mail with a return address sent no later than the following school day.


Whenever a student exceeds 6 unexcused absences in a semester, the District may notify the prosecuting authority and the parent, legal guardian, person having lawful control of the student, or persons standing in loco parentis shall be subject to a civil penalty as prescribed by law. 


For record keeping and data purposes, students will be dropped if:
* A student has 10 consecutive unexcused absences.
or
* A student has 15 unexcused absences within a 20 school days
***An exception will be made if a student has a plan in place that coincides with their excessive absences.




It is the Arkansas General Assembly’s intention that students having excessive absences be given assistance in obtaining credit for their courses. Therefore, at any time prior to when a student exceeds the number of unexcused absences permitted by this policy, the student, or his/her parent, legal guardian, person with lawful control of the student, or person standing in loco parentis may petition the school or district’s administration for special arrangements to address the student’s unexcused absences. If formal arrangements are granted, they shall be formalized into a written agreement which will include the conditions of the agreement and the consequences for failing to fulfill the agreement’s requirements. The agreement shall be signed by the student; the student’s parent, legal guardian, person having lawful control of the student, or person standing in loco parentis; and the school or district administrator or designee.


Students who attend in-school suspension shall not be counted absent for those days.


Days missed due to out-of-school suspension or expulsion shall be unexcused absences.


The District shall notify the Department of Finance and Administration whenever a student fourteen (14) years of age or older is no longer in school. The Department of Finance and Administration is required to suspend the former student’s operator’s license unless he/she meets certain requirements specified in the statute.


 Last Revised: June 2025




PARENT NOTIFICATION OF ABSENCES


It is the parent's responsibility to insist that students arrive at school on time and remain the entire day.  Non-compliance can result in one or more of the following: jeopardize academic standing and socialization; produce student apathy; create a burden of make-up work; loss of sequential basic skills development; be a contributing factor toward retention.
After excessive absences, the principal will extend the number of days due to extenuating circumstances or refer excessive absences to probate court through the city attorney.  Refer to ACT 473 amended by ACT 572 in the 1995 General Assembly.


TRUANCY


Any student, that is absent without the knowledge and approval of the parents or the school, will be considered truant.  Any student who leaves school without checking out through the principal's office will be considered truant.  No make-up work will be allowed in either case, and the student will be subject to the following disciplinary action (Arkansas Law                       b6-18-211, 6-18-217, 6-18-222):


1. Minimum- Conference/Warning/Parent Notification
2. Maximum- Recommendation for expulsion


LEAVING SCHOOL EARLY


The following procedure must be followed to check out Brookland Primary, Elementary, Intermediate,  and Middle Students:


1. A parent, guardian, or person listed on the student’s information sheet must come to the office and sign out the student on the appropriate document and show photo ID.
2. Changes to a student’s information sheet must be made in person by the child’s parent or legal guardian.
3. The student shall wait in the classroom until the parent arrives at school.  The student will be notified to come to the office when the parent arrives.  Students will not sit in the office waiting to be checked out.
4. If a student returns to school, the parent must sign in the student in the office.
5. Primary School/Elementary School/Intermediate/Middle School Only: Any early checkout will result in an absence. Check out before 11:30 am is a full-day absence.  Early check out after 11:30 am is a half-day absence. If a student is checked out after 2:45 pm and returns with a doctor’s note, the student will not be counted absent.


INCLEMENT WEATHER POLICY


On days when weather and/or road conditions will not permit classes to be held, a public broadcast announcement will be made by 6:30 a.m. stating that classes have been canceled.  No announcement means that school will be in session.  Radio stations in Jonesboro and Paragould will carry the announcements. 


Notifications of changes made to the school day will be sent to parents via an automated communication system. Instructions to register for this free service can be found in each school office and on our website: brooklandbearcats.org


PLEASE DO NOT CALL THE SCHOOL OR SCHOOL OFFICIALS.




4.08—MAKE-UP WORK


Students who miss school due to an excused absence shall be allowed to make up the work they missed during their absence under the following rules: 
1. Students are responsible for asking the teachers of the classes they missed what assignments they need to make up. 
2. Teachers are responsible for providing the missed assignments when asked by a returning student. 
3. Students are required to ask for their assignments on their first day back at school or their first class day after their return. 
4. Make-up tests are to be rescheduled at the discretion of the teacher, but must be aligned with the schedule of the missed work to be made up. 
5. Students shall have one class day to make up their work for each class day they are absent. 
6. Make-up work which is not turned in within the make-up schedule for that assignment shall receive a zero.
7. Students are responsible for turning in their make-up work without the teacher having to ask for it.2 
8. Students who are absent on the day their make-up work is due must turn in their work the day they return to school whether or not the class for which the work is due meets the day of their return. 
9. As required/permitted by the student’s Individual Education Program or 504 Plan. 
Work may not be made up for credit for unexcused absences unless the unexcused absences are part of a signed agreement as permitted by policy 4.7—ABSENCES. 


Work for students serving an out-of-school suspension or expulsion shall be in accordance with the District’s programs, measures, or alternative means and methods to continue student engagement and access to education during the student’s period of suspension or expulsion. 


In lieu of the timeline above, assignments for students who are excluded from school by the Arkansas Department of Health during a disease outbreak are to be made up as set forth in Policy 4.57—IMMUNIZATIONS. 


In addition to the make-up work process above, at the conclusion of a pregnancy-related or parenting-related period of absence, a student may choose from various options to make up missed work, including without limitation: 
1. Retaking a semester at the District school where the student is enrolled; 
2. Participating in an online course credit recovery program; 
3. Being granted six (6) weeks to continue at the same pace and finish the semester at a later date, provided that the student may: 
   * Complete the student’s coursework within the current school year; or 
   * Attend previously scheduled summer school classes made available by the District Where the student is enrolled; and 
4. Receiving home-based instruction services. 


Revised: July 2026




4.9—TARDIES


Primary/Elementary/Middle School:


Students will be counted tardy after 7:55 am and before 8:15 (by the school clock).  If a student arrives after 8:15, the student will be counted absent for one-half day.  Each 5th tardy will result in an unexcused absence.  


Intermediate


Students will be counted tardy after 7:50 am and before 8:10 (by the school clock).  If a student arrives after 8:10, the student will be counted absent for one-half day.  Each 5th tardy will result in an unexcused absence. 


Jr. High/Sr. High School:


Tardies are considered unnecessary and WILL result in disciplinary action.  Any student who is not in his/her classroom when the second bell rings will be considered tardy.  The number of tardies will be counted by each classroom teacher period.


1        On the second tardy, the student will be issued a conference/warning by the classroom teacher.
2.        On the third tardy, the student will be issued a discipline referral and sent to the office. The tardy policy will be explained to the student and a warning given.
3.        On the fourth tardy, the student will be assigned to one day after school detention. If the student is tardy or fails to attend the detention, he/she will be assigned to In-School Suspension.
4.        On the fifth tardy, the student will be assigned to two days after school detention. If the student is tardy or fails to attend the detention, he/she will be assigned to In-School Suspension.
5.        On the sixth tardy, the student will be assigned to one day of In-School Suspension. 
6.        On the seventh tardy, the student will be assigned to three days of In-School Suspension.
7.        On the eighth tardy, the student will be assigned to five days of In-School Suspension.
8.        On the ninth tardy, the student will be suspended from school for one day.
9.        On the tenth and subsequent tardies, the student will be suspended from school for two days.
ANY STUDENT WHO IS MORE THAN TWENTY MINUTES LATE FOR A CLASS (WITHOUT A VALID EXCUSE FROM THE PRINCIPAL) WILL BE GIVEN AN UNEXCUSED ABSENCE FOR THAT CLASS.




4.10—CLOSED CAMPUS


All schools in the District shall operate closed campuses. Students are required to stay on campus from their arrival until dismissal at the end of the regular school day unless given permission to leave the campus by a school official. Students must sign out in the office upon their departure.


4.11—EQUAL EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITY


No student in the Brookland School District shall be excluded from participation in, or denied the benefits of, or subjected to discrimination under any educational program or activity sponsored by the District on the basis of color, religion, national origin, sex, age, or disability. The District has a limited open forum granting equal access to the Boy Scouts of America and other youth groups.


Inquiries on non-discrimination may be directed to George Kennedy, who may be reached at 870 932-2080.


Any person may report sex discrimination, including sexual harassment, to the Title IX Coordinator in person or by using the mailing address, telephone number, or email address provided above. A report may be made at any time, including during non-business hours, and may be on the individual’s own behalf or on behalf of another individual who is the person alleged to be the victim of conduct that could constitute sex discrimination or sexual harassment.


For further information on notice of non-discrimination or to file a complaint, visit https://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/complaintintro.html; for the address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-3481.






4.12—STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS / EQUAL ACCESS


Non-curriculum-related school student organizations wishing to conduct meetings on school premises during non-instructional time shall not be denied equal access on the basis of the religious, political, philosophical, or other content of the speech at such meetings. Such meetings must meet the following criteria.


1. The meeting is to be voluntary and student initiated;
2. There is no sponsorship of the meeting by the school, the government, or its agents or employees;
3. The meeting must occur during non-instructional time;
4. Employees or agents of the school are present at religious meetings only in a non-participatory capacity;
5. The meeting does not materially and substantially interfere with the orderly conduct of educational activities within the school; and
6. Non-school persons may not direct, conduct, control, or regularly attend activities of student groups.


All meetings held on school premises must be scheduled and approved by the principal. The school, its agents, and employees retain the authority to maintain order and discipline, to protect the well-being of students and faculty, and to assure that attendance of students at meetings is voluntary.      


Fraternities, sororities, and secret societies are forbidden in the District’s schools. Membership to student organizations shall not be by a vote of the organization’s members, nor be restricted by the student’s race, religion, sex, national origin, or other arbitrary criteria. Hazing, as defined by law, is forbidden in connection with initiation into, or affiliation with, any student organization, extracurricular activity or sport program. Students who are convicted of participation in hazing or the failure to report hazing shall be expelled.


SOLICITING AND FUNDRAISING 


The school is a tax-supported institution.  Classes and organizations are strongly discouraged from using fund raising activities unless necessary.  Soliciting or selling of any kind will be done only with prior permission from the principal.  Organizations, classes, or clubs are limited to two fund raising activities per year.  Any fund raiser or project must be approved by the principal.


CLASS DUES


Students often have to sell certain products in order to raise money for various functions.  The Junior-Senior Prom isthe most expensive function of the school.  As a means of raising money for these functions, class dues for the 7th grade will be set at $3.00.  Each year the dues will be raised one dollar until the junior year.  If there is a need at this point, the dues may be increased.  By doing this, we hope to reduce the amount of selling that has to be done to raise needed funds.  This will not only help the student, but also will relieve the parent who feels obligated to buy.


SCHOOL ORGANIZATIONS/EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES


Jr.High/Sr. High Only


Students have the right to join an existing club or organization, if they meet the guidelines and requirements of that particular club.  Membership will not be restricted on the basis of race, sex, national origin, handicap, or other arbitrary criteria.


All school rules are in effect for any extracurricular function sponsored by the school.  The violation of any school rules at an extracurricular activity will have the same consequences and a violation during regular school hours.


All students are urged to take advantage of opportunities to participate in student organizations and activities.  Participation in these activities offers character, leadership, and other desirable social qualities.


1.        Students may hold an office in no more than two clubs and can only serve as president of no more than one club.  Misconduct by officers will result in their being removed as an officer.  This decision will be made by the sponsor and administration.
2.        Students must maintain at least a “C” average to hold an office in any club, class, or organization.
3.        Students must have three written recommendations by teachers in order to run for student council office.
4.        Students who accumulate ten office referrals for the year will be suspended from participation and attendance at all school activities for the school year.  This includes Jr.-Sr. prom and Senior trip.
5.        Students must be present at least 1/2 day of school (3 hours) in order to participate in any school activity or event on that day or night, unless permission is granted by an administrator in advance.


NOTICE:  STUDENTS WHO PARTICIPATE IN OR ATTEND EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES ARE REPRESENTING BROOKLAND HIGH SCHOOL.  PERSISTENT MISCONDUCT AT THESE ACTIVITIES COULD LEAD TO BANISHMENT FROM FUTURE ACTIVITIES.  SINCE STUDENTS ON TRIPS AWAY FROM SCHOOL WILL BE IN THE PUBLIC EYE, THEY ARE EXPECTED TO BE PROPERLY DRESSED.  GIRLS WILL WEAR SLACKS AND TOPS OR DRESSES; NO JEANS, TENNIS SHOES, OR T-SHIRTS.  BOYS WILL WEAR SLACKS AND SHIRTS (TUCKED IN), NO JEANS, TENNIS SHOES, T-SHIRTS, OR HATS.  STUDENTS WHO FAIL TO COMPLY WILL NOT BE ALLOWED TO BOARD THE BUS.  (SOME EXCEPTIONS MAY APPLY FOR BASEBALL GAMES, FFA, ETC.)


Legal References:        A.C.A. § 6-5-201 et seq.,A.C.A. § 6-21-201 et seq.        20 U.S.C. 4071 Equal Access Act                                          
Board of Education of the Westside Community Schools v. Mergens, 496 U.S. 226 (1990).A.C.A. § 6-18-601 et seq.


CO-CURRICULAR AND INTERSCHOLASTIC PROGRAMS


The Brookland School Board believes that student activities at school are a vital part of the total educational program and should be used as a means of developing wholesome attitudes and good human relations, as well as knowledge and skills.  The Board believes that school citizenship, as reflected in student activities, is a measure of the achievement of important school goals.


It shall be the policy of the Brookland Board of Education that the District will adhere to the requirements established by the Arkansas Activities Association in regard to:


1. Extra-curricular and non-instructional activities and their place in the school program.
2. Limit and control interruptions of instructional time in the classroom and the number of absences for such activities.
3. Requirements that a student must meet to be eligible to participate in extracurricular activities.




4.13—PRIVACY OF STUDENT’S RECORDS/DIRECTORY INFORMATION


Except when a court order regarding a student has been presented to the district to the contrary, all students’ education records are available for inspection and copying by the parent of his/her student who is under the age of eighteen (18). At the age of eighteen (18), the right to inspect and copy a student’s records transfers to the student. A student’s parent or the student, if over the age of 18, requesting to review the student’s education records will be allowed to do so within no more than forty-five (45) days of the request.  The district forwards education records, including disciplinary records, to schools that have requested them and in which the student seeks or intends to enroll, or is already enrolled so long as the disclosure is for purposes related to the student's enrollment or transfer.


The district shall receive written permission before releasing education records to any agency or individual not authorized by law to receive and/or view the education records without prior parental permission. The District shall maintain a record of requests by such agencies or individuals for access to, and each disclosure of, personally identifiable information (PII) from the education records of each student. Disclosure of education records is authorized by law to school officials with legitimate educational interests. A personal record kept by a school staff member is not considered an education record if it meets the following tests:
* it is in the sole possession of the individual who made it;
* it is used only as a personal memory aid; and
* information contained in it has never been revealed or made available to any other person, except the maker’s temporary substitute.


For the purposes of this policy a school official is a person employed by the school as an administrator, supervisor, instructor, or support staff member (including health or medical staff and law enforcement unit personnel); a person serving on the school board; a person or company with whom the school has contracted to perform a special task (such as an attorney, auditor, medical consultant, or therapist); or a parent or student serving on an official committee, such as a disciplinary or grievance committee, or assisting another school official in performing his or her tasks. 


For the purposes of this policy, a school official has a legitimate educational interest if the official needs to review an education record in order to fulfill his or her professional responsibility, contracted duty, or duty of elected office.


In addition to releasing PII to school officials without permission, the District may disclose PII from the education records of students in foster care placement to the student’s caseworker or to the caseworker’s representative without getting prior consent of the parent (or the student if the student is over eighteen (18)). For the District to release the student’s PII without getting permission:
* The student must be in foster care;
* The individual to whom the PII will be released must have legal access to the student’s case plan; and
* The Arkansas Department of Human Services, or a sub-agency of the Department, must be legally responsible for the care and protection of the student.


The District discloses PII from an education record to appropriate parties, including parents, in connection with an emergency if knowledge of the information is necessary to protect the health or safety of the student or other individuals. The superintendent or designee shall determine who will have access to and the responsibility for disclosing information in emergency situations.


When deciding whether to release PII in a health or safety emergency, the District may take into account the totality of the circumstances pertaining to a threat to the health or safety of a student or other individuals.  If the District determines that there is an articulable and significant threat to the health or safety of a student or other individuals, it may disclose information from education records to any person whose knowledge of the information is necessary to protect the health or safety of the student or other individuals.


For purposes of this policy, the Brookland School District does not distinguish between a custodial and noncustodial parent, or a non-parent such as a person acting in loco parentis or a foster parent with respect to gaining access to a student’s records. Unless a court order restricting such access has been presented to the district to the contrary, the fact of a person’s status as parent or guardian, alone, enables that parent or guardian to review and copy his child’s records.


If there exists a court order which directs that a parent not have access to a student or his/her records, the parent, guardian, person acting in loco parentis, or an agent of the Department of Human Services must present a file-marked copy of such order to the building principal and the superintendent. The school will make good-faith efforts to act in accordance with such court order, but the failure to do so does not impose legal liability upon the school. The actual responsibility for enforcement of such court orders rests with the parents or guardians, their attorneys and the court which issued the order.


A parent or guardian does not have the right to remove any material from a student’s records, but such parent or guardian may challenge the accuracy of a record. The right to challenge the accuracy of a record does not include the right to dispute a grade, disciplinary rulings, disability placements, or other such determinations, which must be done only through the appropriate teacher and/or administrator, the decision of whom is final. A challenge to the accuracy of material contained in a student’s file must be initiated with the building principal, with an appeal available to the Superintendent or his/her designee. The challenge shall clearly identify the part of the student’s record the parent wants changed and specify why he/she believes it is inaccurate or misleading. If the school determines not to amend the record as requested, the school will notify the requesting parent or student of the decision and inform them of their right to a hearing regarding the request for amending the record. The parent or eligible student will be provided information regarding the hearing procedure when notified of the right to a hearing.


Unless the parent or guardian of a student (or student, if above the age of eighteen (18)) objects, “directory information” about a student may be made available to the public, military recruiters, post-secondary educational institutions, prospective employers of those students, as well as school publications such as annual yearbooks and graduation announcements. “Directory information” includes, but is not limited to, a student’s name, address, telephone number, electronic mail address, photograph, date and place of birth, dates of attendance, his/her placement on the honor roll (or the receipt of other types of honors), as well as his/her participation in school clubs and extracurricular activities, among others. If the student participates in inherently public activities (for example, basketball, football, or other interscholastic activities), the publication of such information will be beyond the control of the District. “Directory information” also includes a student identification (ID) number, user ID, or other unique personal identifier used by a student for purposes of accessing or communicating in electronic systems and a student ID number or other unique personal identifier that is displayed on a student's ID badge, provided the ID cannot be used to gain access to education records except when used in conjunction with one or more factors that authenticate the user's identity, such as a personal identification number (PIN), password or other factor known or possessed only by the authorized user.


A student’s name and photograph will only be displayed on the district or school’s web page(s) after receiving the written permission from the student’s parent or student if over the age of 18.


The form for objecting to making directory information available is located in the back of the student handbook and must be completed and signed by the parent or age-eligible student and filed with the building principal’s office no later than ten (10) school days after the beginning of each school year or the date the student is enrolled for school. Failure to file an objection by that time is considered a specific grant of permission. The district is required to continue to honor any signed-opt out form for any student no longer in attendance at the district.


The right to opt out of the disclosure of directory information under Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) does not prevent the District from disclosing or requiring a student to disclose the student's name, identifier, or institutional email address in a class in which the student is enrolled.


Parents and students over the age of 18 who believe the district has failed to comply with the requirements for the lawful release of student records may file a complaint with the U.S. Department of Education (DOE) at


Student Privacy Policy Office
U.S. Department of Education
400 Maryland Avenue, SW
Washington, DC 20202


The District shall ensure that all contracts that disclose or make available student personally identifiable information to vendors, including school service contract providers, school service on-demand providers, and other third parties, including without limitation subcontractors of contract providers, include express provisions that safeguard the privacy and security of student personally identifiable information that meet the requirements under A.C.A. § 6-18-2601 et seq. The District shall maintain a list of the school service contract providers that the District contracts with for school services that include or make available student personally identifiable information. The list shall be updated at least once at the beginning of each semester and provided to parents upon request.
 
Revised: 6/5/23




4.14—STUDENT MEDIA AND THE DISTRIBUTION OF LITERATURE
 
Student Media
 
All student media that are supported financially by the school or by use of school facilities, or are produced in conjunction with a class shall be considered school-sponsored media.  School-sponsored media does not provide a forum for public expression. Student media, as well as the content of student expression in school-sponsored activities, shall be subject to the editorial review of the District’s administration, whose actions shall be reasonably related to legitimate pedagogical concerns and adhere to the following limitations.:
1.    Advertising may be accepted for media that does not condone or promote products that are inappropriate for the age and maturity of the audience or that endorses such things as tobacco, alcohol, or drugs.
2. Media may be regulated to prohibit communications determined by the appropriate teacher, student media advisor, and/or administrator, to be ungrammatical,; poorly written,; inadequately researched; biased or prejudiced,; vulgar or profane,; or unsuitable for immature audiences.
3.  Media may be regulated to prohibit the dissemination of material that may reasonably be perceived to advocate drug or alcohol use; irresponsible sex; or conduct that is otherwise inconsistent with the shared values of a civilized social order,; or to associate the school with any position other than neutrality on matters of political controversy.
4. Prohibited media includes those that:
a.   Are obscene as to minors;
b.   Are libelous or slanderous, including material containing defamatory falsehoods about public figures or governmental officials, and made with knowledge of their falsity or a reckless disregard of the truth;
c.  Constitute an unwarranted invasion of privacy as defined by state law,;
d.   Suggest or urge the commission of unlawful acts on the school premises;
e.    Suggest or urge the violation of lawful school regulations;
f.      Attacks ethnic, religious, or racial groups.; or
g.    Harass, threaten, or intimidate a student.
 
Student Media on School Web Pages
 
Student media displayed on school web pages shall follow the same guidelines as listed above;and  also:
1.  Not contain any non-educational advertisements.;
2.  Adhere to the restrictions regarding use of Directory Information as prescribed in Policy 4.13 including not using a student’s photograph when associated with the student’s name unless written permission has been received from the student’s parent or student if over the age of 18;
3. State that the views expressed are not necessarily those of the School Board or the employees of the district.
 
Student Distribution of Non-school Literature, Publications, and Materials
 
A student or group of students who distribute ten (10) or fewer copies of the same non-school literature, publications, or materials (hereinafter “non-school materials”), shall do so in a time, place, and manner that does not cause a substantial disruption of the orderly education environment. A student or group of students wishing to distribute more than ten (10) copies of non-school materials shall have school authorities review their non-school materials at least three (3) school days in advance of their desired time of dissemination. School authorities shall review the non-school materials, prior to their distribution and will bar from distribution those non-school materials that are obscene, libelous, pervasively indecent, or advertise unlawful products or services. Material may also be barred from distribution if there is evidence that reasonably supports a forecast that a substantial disruption of the orderly operation of the school or educational environment will likely result from the distribution. Concerns related to any denial of distribution by the principal shall be heard by the superintendent, whose decision shall be final.
 
The school principal or designee shall establish reasonable regulations governing the time, place, and manner of student distribution of non-school materials.
 
The regulations shall:
1.  Be narrowly drawn to promote orderly administration of school activities by preventing disruption and may not be designed to stifle expression;
2. Be uniformly applied to all forms of non-school materials;
3. Allow no interference with classes or school activities;
4.  Specify times, places, and manner where distribution may and may not occur; and
5.  Not inhibit a person’s right to accept or reject any literature distributed in accordance with the regulations.
6.  Students shall be responsible for the removal of excess literature that is left at the distribution point for more than ___ days.
 
The Superintendent, along with the student media advisors, shall develop administrative regulations for the implementation of this policy. The regulations shall include definitions of terms and timelines for the review of materials.


Last Revised:7/1/19




4.15—CONTACT WITH STUDENTS WHILE AT SCHOOL


CONTACT BY PARENTS


Parents wishing to speak to their children during the school day shall register first with the office.


CONTACT BY NON-CUSTODIAL PARENTS


 If there is any question concerning the legal custody of the student, the custodial parent shall present documentation to the principal or the principal’s designee establishing the parent’s custody of the student. It shall be the responsibility of the custodial parent to make any court ordered “no contact” or other restrictions regarding the non-custodial parent known to the principal by presenting a copy of a file-marked court order. Without such a court order on file, the school will release the child to either of his/her parents. Non-custodial parents who file with the principal a date-stamped copy of current court orders granting unsupervised visitation may, to extend authorized by the court order, volunteer in their child’s classroom, or otherwise have contact with their child during school hours and the prior approval of the school’s principal. Such contact is subject to the limitations outlined in Policy 4.16, Policy 6.5, and any other policies that may apply. The District shall not act as a supervisor for non-custodial parent visitation purposes under any circumstance.


Arkansas law provides that, In order to avoid continuing child custody controversies from involving school personnel and to avoid disruptions to the educational atmosphere in the District’s schools, the transfer of a child between his/her custodial parent and non-custodial parent, when both parents are present, shall not take place on the school’s property on normal school days during normal hours of school operation. The custodial or non-custodial parent may send to/drop off the student at school to be sent to/picked up by the other parent on predetermined days in accordance with any court order provided by the custodial parent or by  a signed agreement between both the custodial  and non-custodial parents that was witnessed by the student’s building principal.1 Unless a valid no-contact order has been filed with the student’s principal or the principal’s designee, district employees shall not become involved in disputes concerning whether or not that parent was supposed to pick up the student on any given day.


CONTACT BY LAW ENFORCEMENT, SOCIAL SERVICES, OR BY COURT ORDER


State Law requires that Department of Human Services employees, local law enforcement, or agents of the Crimes Against Children Division of the Division of Arkansas State Police may interview students without a court order for the purpose of investigating suspected child abuse. In instances where the interviewers deem it necessary, they may exercise a “72-hour hold” without first obtaining a court order. Except as provided below, other questioning of students by non-school personnel shall be granted only with a court order directing such questioning, with permission of the parents of a student (or the student if above eighteen (18) years of age), or in response to a subpoena or arrest warrant.
 
If the District makes a report to any law enforcement agency concerning student misconduct or if access to a student is granted to a law enforcement agency due to a court order, the principal or the principal’s designee shall make a good faith effort to contact the student’s parent, legal guardian, person having lawful control of the student, or person standing in loco parentis identified on student enrollment forms. The principal or the principal’s designee shall not attempt to make such contact if presented documentation by the investigator that notification is prohibited because a parent, legal guardian, custodian person having lawful control of the student, or person standing in loco parentis is named as an alleged offender of the suspected child maltreatment. This exception applies only to interview requests made by a law enforcement officer, an investigator of the Crimes Against Children Division of the Department Division of Arkansas State Police, or an investigator or employee of the Department of Human Services.
 
In instances other than those related to cases of suspected child abuse, principals must release a student to either a police officer who presents a subpoena for the student, or a warrant for arrest, or to an agent of state social services or an agent of a court with jurisdiction over a child with a court order signed by a judge. Upon release of the student, the principal or designee shall give the student’s parent, legal guardian, or other person having lawful control of the student, or person standing in loco parentis notice that the student has been taken into custody by law enforcement personnel or a state’s social services agency. If the principal or designee is unable to reach the parent, he or she shall make a reasonable, good faith effort to get a message to the parent to call the principal or designee, and leave both a day and an after-hours telephone number.  
   
Contact by Professional Licensure Standards Board Investigators


Investigators for the Professional Licensure Standards Board may meet with students during the school day to carry out the investigation of an ethics complaint.


Legal References:          A.C.A. § 6-18-513;A.C.A. § 9-13-104;A.C.A. § 12-18-609, 610, 613;A.C.A. § 12-18-1001, 1005 


4.16 STUDENT VISITORS


* All visitors on campus must report to the principal’s office upon arrival. They must provide a photo ID to scan into our Hall Pass system to obtain a visitors pass. When leaving, visitors must check out through the principal’s office. 
* No visitor will be able to visit with a teacher or student at any time other than recess, or before and after school, unless an emergency exists.
* As the school program is designed to provide a full day of meaningful activity, no time is left for visiting by the students.  Therefore, no visitor should accompany a student to class.
* Parents waiting to pick up students at the end of the day should not go to the classrooms or wait in the halls.  Parents should remain in their vehicle in the car line.
* Students will not be released to anyone without a proper ID.
* No visitors will be allowed on school playgrounds except for picnic days and approved volunteers.
* Only parents, legal guardians, and/or grandparents are allowed to attend picnic days.  Sibling students are not permitted to attend.
* No lunch visitors will be allowed due to limited space in the cafeterias in each building. 


PARTIES


To insure the students plenty of instructional time, classroom birthday parties will not be allowed.  Students are not permitted to pass out party invitations at school.  Students from other classes or other campuses are not permitted to attend any class parties. Only store prepared food items are allowed for parties and food days. For safety reasons, deliveries (such as balloons, candy, flowers, etc.) to the school are not allowed. 


The elementary and intermediate classes will have one organized party per year, at Christmas time.  Homeroom parents are responsible for organizing these parties by the teacher’s wishes.  Adult attendees are expected to assist the teacher in serving students and cleaning up behind students following the party.  Students from other classes or other campuses and/or siblings are not permitted to attend class parties.


USE OF BUILDINGS AFTER SCHOOL HOURS


Arrangements should be made with the principal for all activities that need the buildings after school hours.  The arrangements should be made by the teacher sponsoring the organization or activity and that teacher will be responsible for seeing that the building is in order for the next day’s classes.


4.17—PROHIBITED CONDUCT AND STUDENT DISCIPLINE


The Brookland Board of Education has a responsibility to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the District’s students and employees. To help maintain a safe environment conducive to high student achievement, the Board establishes policies necessary to regulate student behavior to promote an orderly school environment that is respectful of the rights of others and ensures the uniform enforcement of student discipline. Students are responsible for their conduct that occurs: 
* At any time on the school grounds; 
* Off school grounds at a school sponsored function, activity, or event; and 
* Going to and from school or a school activity. 
The District’s administrators may also take disciplinary action against a student for off-campus conduct occurring at any time that would have a detrimental impact on school discipline, the educational environment, or the welfare of the students and/or staff. A student who has committed a criminal act while off campus and whose presence on campus could cause a substantial disruption to school or endanger the welfare of other students or staff is subject to disciplinary action up to and including expulsion. Such acts could include, but are not limited to: 
* A felony or an act that would be considered a felony if committed by an adult; 
* An assault or battery; 
* Drug law violations; or 
* Sexual misconduct of a serious nature. 
Any disciplinary action pursued by the District shall be in accordance with the student’s appropriate due process rights.
The District shall incorporate the District’s multi-tiered behavioral intervention procedures in accordance with Policy 4.60 in the application of student discipline. 


The District’s personnel policy committees shall annually review the District’s student discipline policies, including State and District student discipline data, and may recommend changes in the policies to the Brookland School Board. The Board has the responsibility of determining whether to approve any recommended changes to student discipline policies. 


The District’s student discipline policies shall be distributed to each student during the first week of school each year and to new students upon their enrollment. Each student’s parent, legal guardian, person having lawful control of the student, or person standing in loco parentis shall sign and return to the school an acknowledgement form documenting that they have received the policies. 


The District shall develop and provide programs, measures, or alternative means and methods for continued student engagement and educational access during periods of suspension or expulsion. 


The superintendent is authorized to modify the penalties set forth in the District’s student discipline policies on a case-by-case basis. 


It is required by law that the principal or the person in charge report to the police any incidents the person has personal knowledge of or has received information leading to a reasonable belief that a person has committed or threatened to commit an act of violence or any crime involving a deadly weapon on school property or while under school supervision. If the person making the report is not the Superintendent, that person shall also inform the Superintendent of the incident. Additionally, the principal shall inform any school employee or other person who initially reported the incident that a report has been made to the appropriate law enforcement agency. The Superintendent or designee shall inform the Board of Directors of any such report made to law enforcement. 


The superintendent shall make a report annually to the Board of Directors on student discipline data, which shall include, without limitation, the number of incidents of bullying reported and the actions taken regarding the reported incidents of bullying.  


Forms of Punishment/Corrective Action


Students who engage in unacceptable behavior will be subject to, but not limited to, one or more of the following actions:


Principal/student conference and verbal reprimand
Principal/student/parent conference
Morning/After-School Detention
In-School Suspension
Corporal punishment
Disciplinary Education Program(DEP)
Success Achievement Academy Placement(ALE)
Three (3) day suspension
Five (5) day suspension
Ten (10) day suspension
Expulsion


The following activities are examples of improper conduct and will subject the student to disciplinary action including, but not limited to, suspension or expulsion from school.  A violation of the rule will occur whether the conduct on the school grounds at a school activity, function, or event, or en route to and from school.
STUDENTS WHO ARE SUSPENDED, IN-SCHOOL, OUT OF SCHOOL, OR EXPELLED WILL NOT BE ALLOWED TO PARTICIPATE IN OR ATTEND ANY SCHOOL SPONSORED EVENT OR ACTIVITY ON THOSE DAYS.




Students will not be permitted to attend field trips or dances if they have received any of the following:


* three (3) or more (major) discipline referrals in a nine week period 
* ten (10)  or more (minor) discipline referrals in a nine week period
* six (6) or more(major) discipline referrals in a semester
* twenty (20) or more (minor) discipline referrals in a semester






DETENTION




Middle School
Before school detention will be held from 7:20 a.m. to 7:50 a.m. in a middle school classroom.  Students who are not in their seats by 7:20 a.m. (determined by the school clock) will be considered absent and will be assigned another day of detention unless a legitimate reason is given in advance and accepted by the principal.  Behavior during detention is as follows:


Students may not leave the room except for an emergency.  Students must work; talking, changing seats, looking out of windows, laying heads on the desk, etc. will not be tolerated. Students must bring books, paper, pencils, and other materials needed for completion of assignments.  Students who do not work in detention will be sent home and assigned another detention on the first offense.  On the second offense, the student will be sent home, and suspended for three days of school.


Only the principal or designee may assign a student to detention.


Jr. High/Sr. High School


After school detention will be held from 3:05 p.m. to 3:50 p.m. in a high school classroom.  Students who are not in their seats by 3:10 (determined by the school clock) will be considered absent and will be assigned an additional day detention unless a legitimate reason is given in advance and accepted by the principal.  Students who do not bring work to do in detention will be sent home and assigned another after school detention.  


Disciplinary Education Program


A disciplinary education program (DEP) is defined as an educational and self-discipline alternative instructional program, adopted by local policy, for students in 7th through 12th grade who are removed from their regular classes for mandatory or discretionary disciplinary reasons and placed in a DEP.


Disciplinary education program (DEP) is an alternative education program for students who violate a district’s Student Code of Conduct or certain other offenses such as a felony offense.


Disciplinary alternative education differs from other kinds of alternative education primarily in method of student placement and program purpose. Students are placed in disciplinary alternative education settings after removal from their assigned classrooms or schools, and attendance is compulsory for prescribed periods of time.


The purpose of disciplinary alternative education is to provide temporary student placements for behavior management, often as alternatives to suspension or expulsion. The goal is for students to return to, and succeed in, their regularly assigned classrooms and schools.


Academically, the mission of a DEP is to enable students to perform at grade level. A school district must offer a student removed to a DEP an opportunity to complete coursework before the beginning of the next school year at no expense to the student. A school district may choose to provide a program of educational and support services to a student and the student's parents when the offense involves drugs or alcohol. 


Disciplinary alternative education settings have become increasingly common across the U.S. as a response to school crime, student violence, and classroom disruption (Education Commission of the States, 2007).


The district must stipulate whether, in decisions to order removal to a DEP, consideration is given to self-defense, intent or lack of intent at the time the students engaged in the conduct, the students disciplinary history, or disability that substantially impairs the students capacity to appreciate the wrongfulness of his or her conduct. This is required to provide guidelines for setting the length of a term of removal to a DEP and address notification of a student’s parent or guardian of any violation that results in the student's removal to a DEP.


Within five school days after the date a student is removed from class, the principal or another appropriate administrator will schedule a conference with the student, the parent or guardian of the student, and the teacher or administrator who removed a student from class. The student may not be returned to the regular classroom before the conference is held. At the conference, the student is entitled to an opportunity to respond to the reasons for the removal. 


Under special circumstances, a principal may order the immediate placement of a student in a DEP. At the time of an emergency placement, the student must be given oral notice of the reason for the action. Within 10 days after the date of the placement, the student must be accorded due process. The period of DEP placement may not exceed one year unless, after a review, the district determines the student is a threat to the safety of other students or district employees or that extended placement is in the best interest of the student. If the student's placement in a DEP is to extend beyond 60 days or the end of the next grading period, a student's parent or guardian is entitled to notice of, and an opportunity to participate in, a proceeding before the board of trustees. A decision of the board may not be appealed.


The length of time a student attends a DEP may differ from the length of time originally ordered. Reasons for a difference can include modification of the terms of assignment, early completion of the terms of assignment, failure to complete the full assignment before the end of the school year, student withdrawal from school, and student incarceration.


1.0. The alternative school program will establish collaborative partnerships in a system of shared responsibility for program support and for service delivery to enrolled students. 


2.0. The alternative school program will integrate life skills development within the curriculum. 


3.0. The alternative school program will have an effective system of positive student management. 


4.0. The alternative school will utilize innovative teaching strategies. 


5.0. The alternative school program will have a curriculum developed in response to needs of the student population. 


6.0. The alternative school program will provide appropriate assessment and support services. 


7.0. The alternative school program will provide an environment that is conducive to learning. 


8.0. The alternative school program will be implemented by effective, qualified staff. 


9.0. The alternative school program will have an effective transition process for students entering and exiting the program. 


General DEP classroom rules include:


* Be respectful to all DEP staff members, other students, and visitors and/or guests (persons, property, space etc.) at all times. 


* Have all necessary materials and be ready to start on time. 


* Remain on task and stay focused on goals throughout the day. 


* A student must raise his/her hand and wait in an appropriate manner until his/her request is received and considered and the student has received permission to move away from his/her designated area or ask a question/make a comment. 


* The Code of Conduct and Dress Code of the DEP will be strictly enforced.


* Daily Schedule:
AM
* Transportation
   * Students cannot ride the bus while serving time in DEP(exceptions may be made under extenuating circumstances)
* Arrival
   * Students report to DEP Classroom upon arrival
      * Students turn in cell phones, ear buds, smart watches
      * Students may talk to one another during this time
   * Students are escorted any time they must move about campus
* Sign-In
   * Upon classroom arrival
      * No talking
      * Sign-in sheet on DEP Director’s desk
   * Transfer all supplies/personal items to Clear Bag
      * Store in designated area away from student desk
* Technology
   * Upon classroom arrival
      * Show battery percentage of Chromebook to DEP monitor
      * No charging in the classroom
      * If Chromebook needs charging, additional half day added to time assigned in DEP
   * DEP monitor announces each day when students are allowed to open Chromebook and begin school assignments
   * Students monitored on GoGuardian any time Chromebook in use
      * Technology use only as assigned by a teacher and/or approved by DEP monitor
* Breakfast
   * Students escorted (single-file, no talking) to cafeteria to pick up
      * Return to DEP classroom to eat
      * 10 minutes to eat breakfast (may talk to one another)
   * Students are not allowed to bring or have any snack or drink
      * DEP monitor gives each student a bottled water daily
      * Students may refill on restroom breaks
      * Students may only eat/drink food provided by cafeteria
* Communication
   * Students must raise hand any time they want to ask question/speak
      * Must copy DEP monitors in any email sent to teachers
      * No emailing other students
* Traveling on campus
   * Walk single-file, no talking, escorted
* Restroom breaks
   * 4 per day for all students
      * 815a, 955a, 1145a, 155p
* Lunch
   * 1115a-1145a
   * Sack lunch sent from cafeteria to each student
   * Students may bring a cold lunch from home (no microwave)




PM
* Character-Building
   * Up to 1 hour daily
   * Lessons lead by DEP monitors
      * Watch and discuss videos
      * Listen and discuss topics chosen by DEP monitor or students
      * Listen and learn from guest speakers
* Writing Prompts
   * Each student is given a composition notebook for DEP and theirs to keep after
   * DEP monitor assigns 2 or 3 writing prompts per week
   * DEP monitor reads/responds and returns their notebook weekly
* Ripple Effects for Teens
   * Students are allowed to choose a topic, complete it and email DEP monitor what they learned.
* Transportation
   * 2:50p, students transfer all materials from clear bag to backpack
   * 2:56p, students escorted single-file to car line for 3p dismissal (return cell phones)
   * Students waiting on their ride must be in designated area (in front of benches at BPS Jr High)




The items listed below are the criteria that will be used to determine reduction of days at DEP: 


1. Attendance
2. Conduct
3. Academics
4. Dress Code
5. Exceeding Goals
STUDENTS CAN EARN UP TO 20% OF THEIR TOTAL DAYS ASSIGNED FOR EARLY DISMISSAL BACK TO THEIR HOME CAMPUS FOR PERFECT ATTENDANCE, GOOD BEHAVIOR, AND SUCCESSFULLY COMPLETING ALL ACADEMIC ASSIGNMENTS.


Check-In/Check-Out Procedure


* Students are not to arrive at the campus before 7:25a.m.


* Classroom instruction will begin at 7:50 a.m. Students will wait patiently.


* Students will turn in their cellphones, earbuds, and/or smartwatches upon arrival. Devices will be returned at the end of the day. 


* Students will place their lunch in the designated area and/or order a sack lunch for that day. 


* Students will be dismissed per DEP Director’s instructions as outlined above.  


* Students will be dismissed at 3:00pm. and are expected to leave the facility and campus area by 3:10 p.m.


THE LEVELS


A student must work their way through two levels. 


* In order to advance from entry level to mastery level a student must earn acceptable scores in all core subjects and follow classroom rules for 5 consecutive days. 


* To maintain mastery level status the student must continue to follow the DEP Student Handbook, Student Code of Conduct, and Classroom Rules for the duration of their DEP assignment.


For a student to exit this program and return to his/her home campus a student:


1. Must have  satisfactorily completed all DEP program rules as outlined above. Must have satisfactorily completed all academic assignments on his/her final day in the Disciplinary Education Program. 
2. Must have all his/her textbooks and workstation in order. 


LAW ENFORCEMENT 


If a student’s behavior, while he/she is receiving his/her educational services in DEP, warrants, law enforcement officials will be called. Violations of this nature might include, but are not limited to: 


1. Assault
2. Fighting 
3. Possession of firearm or weapon: will result in expulsion.
4. Possession of drugs or drug paraphernalia: will result in expulsion. 
5. When it has been determined that a student is under the influence of alcohol or an illegal drug, that student will face expulsion. 
6. Leaving campus without permission 
7. Disruption of the class environment
8. Threat to another student or staff member


A student who, after being placed in a Disciplinary Education Program, continues to engage in serious or persistent misbehavior that violates the district’s previously communicated written standards of student conduct, may be expelled. Any student committing a DEP placement offense, while already assigned to DEP, may be expelled at the discretion of the Brookland Board of Education. 


ABSENCES


If a student is absent, the parent should notify the school by calling (870) 932-2080. The student should submit a note from his/her parents explaining the reason for the absence upon his/her return to the DEP program. A student is required to make-up all absences before returning to his/her home campus. Unexcused absences will result in student making up days missed plus 1 day for each unexcused day. 


Acceptable Use of District Technology Resources 


To prepare students for an increasingly technological society, the district has made an investment in the use of district-owned technology resources for instructional purposes; specific resources may be issued individually to students. Use of these technological resources, which include the district’s network system and use of district equipment, is restricted to approved purposes only. 


Students and parents must sign the Authorization Form regarding acceptable use of the Electronic Internet Communication System prior to using district resources. Violations of the user agreement may result in withdrawal of privileges and other disciplinary action. 


Students may be given access to the District’s electronic communications system. Through this system, the student will be able to communicate with other schools, colleges, organizations, and people around the world through the internet. The student will have access to hundreds of databases, libraries, and computer services all over the world. With this educational opportunity comes responsibility. Inappropriate system use will result in the loss of the privilege to use this educational tool. Please note that the Internet is a network of many types of communication and information networks. It is possible that you may run across some material you (or your parents) might find objectionable. While the District will take reasonable steps to restrict access to such material, it is not possible to absolutely prevent such access. It will be your responsibility to follow the rules for appropriate use. 




RULES FOR APPROPRIATE USE


* You will be assigned an individual account and are responsible for not sharing the password for that account with others. 


* The account is to be used for identified educational purposes only.


* You will be held responsible at all times for the proper use of your account, and the District may suspend or revoke your access if you violate the rules. 


* You will be held responsible for any postings to a social networking site that would “materially disrupt classwork, involve substantial disorder, or interfere with the rights of others” (Tinker, 393 U.S. at 506). 


INAPPROPRIATE USES


* Using the system for any illegal purpose.


* Logging into someone else’s account. 


* Posting personal information about yourself or others (such as addresses and phone numbers). 


* Downloading or using copyrighted information without permission from the copyright holder. 


* Using a proxy bypass site. 


* Wasting school resources through the improper use of the computer system. 


* Gaining unauthorized access to restricted information or resources. 


* Encrypting communications to avoid security review. 


* Accessing non-educational social networking sites.
 
* Disabling, bypassing, or attempting to disable any Internet filtering device. 
* Using personal electronic mail accounts. 


* Purposefully taking, disseminating, transferring, or sharing abusive, obscene, lewd, sexually oriented, threatening, harassing, damaging to another’s reputation, or otherwise illegal images or photographs, which includes cyberbullying and sexting. This prohibition will result in discipline according to the Student Code of Conduct and may, in certain circumstances, be reported to law enforcement. 


* Posting messages, accessing, or possessing materials that are abusive, obscene, lewd, sexually oriented, threatening, harassing, damaging to another’s reputation, or otherwise illegal. This prohibition applies to conduct on or off school property if it results in a substantial disruption to the educational environment. 


* Loading software without district permission. 


* 3G, 4G, hot spots, and other private methods of connecting to the Internet are not allowed to be used to access the Internet while on school property.


CONSEQUENCES FOR INAPPROPRIATE USES


* Suspension of access to the system. 


* Revocation of the computer system account; or


* Other disciplinary or legal action, in accordance with the Student Code of Conduct and applicable laws. Students understand that their computer use  is not private and that the District will monitor their activity on the computer system. Students have read the District’s electronic communication system regulations and agree to abide by those provisions. Students understand that violation of these provisions may result in suspension or revocation of system access.


CAFETERIA SERVICES


Students have the option of purchasing a sack lunch each morning during the check in, or the student may provide his/her own sack lunch. A lunch from home must be  clearly labeled with the student’s name. No glass containers or open drinks are allowed. The district participates in the National School Lunch Program and offers nutritionally balanced lunches each day. Free and reduced price lunches are available based on financial aid and will be provided for those students who qualify.




GRADING GUIDELINES


Credit will be given for all acceptable work completed while in DEP. Grades for work done in DEP will not replace previous grades but will be averaged with grades earned at the student’s home campus. At times, during a student’s placement in DEP, a student may be assigned homework from a DEP staff member.


EXTRA-CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES


Students are not allowed to participate in or attend any school related functions on or off any Brookland campus while enrolled in DEP. Students are not permitted to visit any of these campuses in the district in which they receive their educational services until they have successfully completed their DEP assignment and have been reinstated in good standing with their home campus. Students disregarding the stipulations may risk the possibility of further disciplinary action or law-enforcement involvement.


RELEASE OF STUDENTS FROM SCHOOL 


A student will not be released from school at times other than at the end of the day except with permission from the principal and his/her designee and according to the campus sign out procedures. A student who will need to leave school during the day must bring a note from his/her parents that morning. Unless the principal has granted approval because of extenuating circumstances, a student will not be released before the end of the instructional day.


A student who becomes ill during the school day should notify a DEP staff member.  A DEP staff member will contact a school nurse who will decide whether or not the student should be sent home. Students will be required to make up the time missed from the DEP.


Students must leave campus immediately at the end of the school day.


SEARCHES


In the interest of promoting student safety and attempting to ensure that schools are safe and drug-free, district officials may from time to time conduct searches. Such searches are conducted without a warrant and as permitted by law. 


Students’ desks are school property and remain under the control and jurisdiction of the school even when assigned to an individual student. Students are fully responsible for the security and contents of the assigned desks. Searches of desks may be conducted anytime there is reasonable cause.


Students in DEP are subject to audio and visual monitoring at all times. 


TRANSFERS AND WITHDRAWALS


Students who withdraw from Brookland Public School District before serving/completing an assignment in DEP shall complete the assignment upon re-enrollment in the district, unless the assignment was served in another district. 


Students who enroll in the Brookland School District before serving/completing an assignment in DEP from a prior district shall complete the assignment upon enrollment at Brookland School District. 


Students who enroll in a hospital/drug treatment center may reduce their assignment time in DEP, on a day-to-day basis, with the district’s approval. Verification of hospitalization/treatment must be presented upon re-entry. 


TRANSPORTATION


Students enrolled at a Brookland campus who were assigned to DEP will need to contact the Brookland School District to discuss transportation.


Student transportation to and from school is the responsibility of the parent, legal guardian or designee. Transportation must have prior approval by administration.


A student may be granted permission to walk to school or home from school at the request of a parent and/or legal guardian. That request must be in writing and specify whether this request be granted each day their child is attending DEP or whether it is a request for that permission to be granted for a specific day(s) only. 


BEHAVIORAL CONTRACT:


Students in DEP will follow all the rules and policies stated in Brookland Student Handbook, Code of Conduct.


DEP students will not be allowed on other campuses while placed in DEP. This includes extra-curricular activities. It is considered to be criminally trespassing and, if caught, the student will be issued a ticket and face legal consequences. The SRO will inform the student about this issue separately within their first one-two days on campus. 


Students are expected to have loose-leaf paper or spiral notebooks, pencils or pens, and some type of non-zippered binder or other folder. 


DO NOT bring Sharpies or markers. One or two highlighters is sufficient. These will serve as your student’s supplies while in DEP. Be aware that your student’s supplies may be searched each morning. 


Electronic devices are not to be seen or heard during the school day. Students are to turn these items in at morning sign-in and devices are returned at the end of the school day. 


Devices that are not turned in and removed from the student are returned on the 4th day or to the parent. 


Student transportation to and from school is the responsibility of the parent, legal guardian or designee. Transportation must have prior approval by administration.


Students and parents are responsible for comparing their student’s schedule from home campus with their DEP schedule. Due to limited electives offered, sometimes, they must be changed. 
deviceblue
Grades earned in DEP are reported to the home campus and combined with grades previously earned. Parents and students are responsible for checking assignments that might be missing from the home campus upon return. 


Excessive student absences could affect the length of placement. 


Students will be reviewed before returning to their home campus. Their daily behavior, as well as academic success, will be considered. 


We agree to the terms of these behavior expectations:




Updated 7/13/2023


4.18—PROHIBITED CONDUCT
 
Students and staff require a safe and orderly learning environment that is conducive to high student achievement. Certain student behaviors are unacceptable in such an environment and are hereby prohibited by the Board. Prohibited behaviors include, but shall not be limited to the following: 
1. Disrespect for school employees and failing to comply with their reasonable directions or otherwise demonstrating insubordination; 
2. Disruptive behavior that interferes with orderly school operations; 
3. Willfully and intentionally assaulting or threatening to assault or physically abusing any student or school employee; 
4. Possession of any weapon that can reasonably be considered capable of causing bodily harm to another individual; 
5. Possession or use of tobacco in any form on any property owned or leased by any public school; 
6. Willfully or intentionally damaging, destroying, or stealing school property; 
7. Possession and use of a personal electronic device except as authorized by Policy 4.47 or by the student’s IEP or 504 Plan; 
8. Possession, selling, distributing, or being under the influence of an alcoholic beverage, any illegal drug, unauthorized inhalants, or the inappropriate use or sharing of prescription or over the counter drugs, or other intoxicants, or anything represented to be a drug; 
9. Sharing, diverting, transferring, applying to others (such as needles or lancets), or in any way misusing medication or any medical supplies in their possession; 
10. Inappropriate public displays of affection; 
11. Cheating, copying, or claiming another person's work to be his/her own; 
12. Gambling; 
13. Inappropriate student dress; 
14. Use of vulgar, profane, or obscene language or gestures; 
15. Truancy; 
16. Excessive tardiness; 
17. Engaging in behavior designed to taunt, degrade, or ridicule another person on the basis of race, ethnicity, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, or disability; 
18. Possess, view, distribute or electronically transmit sexually explicit or vulgar images or representations, whether electronically, on a data storage device, or in hard copy form; 
19. Hazing, or aiding in the hazing of another student; 
20. Gangs or gang-related activities, including belonging to secret societies of any kind, are forbidden on school property. Gang insignias, clothing, “throwing signs” or other gestures associated with gangs are prohibited; 
21. Sexual harassment; 
22. Bullying; 
23. Operating a vehicle on school grounds while using a wireless communication device; 
24. Theft of another individual’s personal property; and 
25. Antisemitism. 
The Board directs each school in the District to develop implementation regulations for prohibited student conduct consistent with applicable Board policy, State and Federal laws, and judicial decisions.  


Updated: July 2026
                  
4.19—CONDUCT TO AND FROM SCHOOL AND TRANSPORTATION ELIGIBILITY


The District’s Student Code of conduct applies to students while traveling to and from school or to and from a school activity to the same extent as if the students were on school grounds. Appropriate disciplinary actions may be taken against commuting students who violate the District’s Student Code of Conduct.
 
The preceding paragraph also applies to student conduct while on school buses. Students shall be instructed in safe riding practices. The driver of a school bus shall not operate the school bus until every passenger is seated. In addition to other disciplinary measures provided for violations of the District’s Student Code of Conduct, the student’s bus transportation privileges may be suspended or terminated for violations of the Student Code of Conduct related to bus behavior.
 
Students are eligible to receive district bus transportation if they meet the following requirements. The transportation to and from school of students who have lost their bus transportation privileges is the responsibility of the student’s parent or guardian.
 
Last Revised:7/1/19




SCHOOL BUS POLICIES AND REGULATIONS


The bus driver is responsible for referring discipline problems to the principal or the transportation supervisor. All students who use school buses, whether regularly or occasionally must abide by the following rules:


* A student can be suspended from transportation and/or school as a result of misconduct on the bus.  This action can be taken only by the principal, transportation supervisor, or designee.  The student will be permitted to ride the bus until his/her parents have been notified of the suspension.  During the suspension of bus privileges, it shall be the parent’s/guardian’s responsibility to provide the student’s transportation to and from school.
* Students are considered in school from the time they reach the bus stop in the morning until they are let off the bus in the afternoon.  Be at the bus stop at the scheduled time.  Stand back at least ten feet from the bus stop and wait until the door is opened before moving closer to the bus.  Do not play on the highway or road.  If you miss the bus, do not attempt to hitch hike or walk to or from school.
* While loading and unloading, enter and leave the bus orderly and quickly.  The students will walk to their building from the bus.
* While riding the bus, students are under supervision of the driver at all times.  The driver has the authority to suspend a student temporarily from riding the bus.
* Students are expected to conduct themselves in such a manner that they will not distract the attention of their driver or disturb other riders on the bus.  This includes keeping hands and feet to themselves, attending to their own materials, leaving other pupils alone, and being reasonably quiet.
* No knives, sharp objects of any kind, firearms, pets or living animals of any kind are allowed on the bus.  Pencils and pens must be kept in a safe place, which is out of sight.  Any sharp object is an extreme hazard on a moving school bus.
* Students are not allowed to tamper with any of the safety devices such as door latches, fire extinguishers, etc.  Pupils must keep assigned seats while the bus is in motion and must not move while it is stopped except as the driver directs.  Pupils are not to put their hands, arms, heads, or bodies out of the window.  Do not speak or yell at anyone outside the bus.
* Students are not allowed to deface or litter the bus, or throw things from the windows.
* Eating on the bus is prohibited.
* Students should not ask the driver to let them off the bus anywhere except at their regular stop without written permission from the principal or parent.
* Students who cross the road or highway to enter the bus should always be on the right side of the road waiting for the bus.  If they should arrive at the stop just as the bus approaches the stop, they must wait until the bus has come to a complete stop, they must wait until the bus has come to a complete stop and the driver has signaled for them to cross in front of the bus.
* Students who must cross the road after leaving the bus in the afternoon must go to a point on the shoulder of the road ten feet in front of the bus.  Cross the road only after the driver has signaled.
* Students cannot ride any bus except their own.  Visitors are not allowed except in case of emergency.  Permission must be secured from the principal.
* Stereos, tape players, and headphones are not allowed on the bus.
* Students must abide by the rules and regulations while riding the school bus.  When students violate bus rules, the following actions will be taken:


   1. Warning/corporal punishment
   2. Corporal punishment/Bus suspension- 3 days
   3. Bus suspension- 5 days
   4. Bus suspension- 10 days
   5. Bus suspension- remainder of the year


The Transportation Director may alter the severity of punishment based on circumstances and other conditions.  Continual violation of any school rule will result in progressively more severe punishment.  One warning will be given (if appropriate) and other punishments will follow when different rules are broken.


USE OF SCHOOL BUSES FOR EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES


Arrangements should be made with the principal for use of the school bus for extracurricular activities at least three school days prior to the trip.  It shall be the responsibility of the sponsoring teacher to make these arrangements.


ALL STUDENTS RIDING A SCHOOL BUS ON SCHOOL SPONSORED ACTIVITIES MUST RETURN ON THE BUS UNLESS THEIR OWN PARENT OR GUARDIAN NOTIFIES THE SPONSOR AND PICKS UP THE STUDENTS.


Teachers who plan a field trip or need students who are not in his/her class must make a list of the students and bring to the principal’s office two days in advance of the planned trip.


PERMISSION SLIPS MUST BE SENT HOME BY EACH STUDENT AND RETURNED TO THE SPONSOR BEFORE THE STUDENT WILL BE ALLOWED TO GO ON THE TRIP.
Phone calls will not be permitted.  State law requires that a bus seating chart be used for any school activity.


STUDENT TRAVEL AND FIELD TRIPS


Field trips are an important part of the educational process. Students are expected to abide by all rules and guidelines on trips. Refusal to do so will eliminate that student from any further trips.  Parents will sign a release for all school sponsored trips.


Field trips are educational tools that help teach children independence. Brookland welcomes parent involvement.  However, the only parents attending field trips will be those asked by the classroom teacher to chaperone.  Chaperones may not bring toys, pets, or other children on trips.  No smoking allowed.  Each grade will take no more than one field trip per semester each year.  No siblings of students or other children are allowed on field trips.  A student must ride the bus to the field trip in order to participate in the scheduled activities.  If you want to remove your child from a field trip you must sign a release.  If a student will be leaving a field trip with adults other than their own parents, the teacher and office must be notified no later than the day before the field trip in writing. Attendance policy will be followed for early check-out for field trips.  


Purpose


The Brookland Board of Education recognizes that the educational program for students can be enhanced through the wise use of off-campus experiences.  The objectives for all student trips are to be clearly defined and consistent with the objectives of the class or activity of the school or district.  Overnight travel must always be grounded in educationally oriented activities.  While student travel may include activities that are not part of the approved curriculum, it is understood that the general purpose of student travel is to supplement regular school educational programs.


General Policy Guidelines
1.   All student travel must be approved and recommended to the School Board by the Principal and Superintendent after safety, supervision and educational justification have been verified.  All overnight trips must be approved by the Brookland Board of Education.
2. School employees are not to solicit students to participate in any commercial or non-school sponsored trip without advance approval in writing to the Superintendent or his designee.
3. Extended excursions should not be requested if comparable experiences are available closer to home.  Students are not to remain overnight if it is practical to return home.
4. Students or teams qualifying for National Competition must be approved by the School Board subject to all policy guidelines and stipulations.  Only the qualifying students will be allowed to attend the National Competition.  Teams/groups wishing to attend National Conventions without competitions, (i.e., FFA, FCCLA, FBLA, and BETA); will be allowed to attend once every three years.
5. Whenever students travel, there will be adequate and mature supervision to provide for the safety of students.
6. All expenses will be paid by activity accounts or fundraising activities.  Extended trip planning should be started as soon as possible in advance of the trip to permit adequate time for students to earn the necessary funds.  Parent information is required for overnight travel and a parent information meeting is required for extended trip activities.  The travel group/activity must provide evidence of substantial support by members of the group and their parents prior to School Board approval.
7. No student will be subjected to pressure to participate in school-sponsored travel activities except for competitions, events, and performances that are integral to membership on an athletic or other extracurricular team, club, group, or pre-season event.  Subject to the exceptions described above, non-participation in student travel may not result in loss of credit, removal from a team or any other negative consequence to students.


Cost of Travel


The cost of travel will be the responsibility of the team, club, group, or activity through the use of activity funds, fundraising activities, or donations.  The cost of travel shall be kept as low as reasonably possible without compromising the safety of the students and chaperones involved.  No student at any grade level shall be denied participation due to lack of funds if the excursion takes place during the school day.  However, if approved fund-raising projects are initiated and students are provided options to assist in fundraising, those students who do not assist in fundraising may be denied participation on the excursion.  Students who make a reasonable effort but fail to raise funds shall not be denied participation or penalized in any way.  Students may be denied because of disciplinary issues or outstanding school debt.


Approval of Travel


The Brookland Board of Education must approve all overnight travel.  Parents/guardians should be given adequate notice prior to any student travel and must give written approval for all travel.  A parent/guardian consent form may be signed at the beginning of each school year giving permission for students to participate in all regularly scheduled local field trips.  Overnight trips require a separate consent form that is specific to the particular trip.  Overnight trip consent forms must include the nature of all of the activities in which the student will participate.  They must also include permission signatures, emergency contact telephone numbers, any specific medical needs and conditions, and permission to provide emergency medical care.  The Field Trip/Medical permission forms shall be taken on the trip by the sponsor.


Student Eligibility for Travel and Conduct of Participants


Students who travel under the name of the school and adults who supervise that travel become role models for others and help establish and maintain the reputation of the school and district.  Behavior and conduct of students and chaperones fall under the rules and policies of the school, district, and Arkansas law.  Student members of the travel group who violate applicable behavior expectations will not be allowed to participate in future trips and will face disciplinary actions according to the parent-student handbook.  In the case of serious violations raising safety or health concerns, the staff member shall immediately consult with the principal to determine one of the following responses:  1) contact the parents/guardians and require the parents/guardians to pick up the student, 2) send the student home by public carrier with a chaperone or in a vehicle driven by the chaperone at the parents/guardians expense, after notifying the parent of the travel plans.


Travel Safety


The safety of participants is of primary concern when travel occurs.  Schools are to provide clear safety instructions to students and chaperones prior to leaving for a travel experience and review safety instructions periodically during extended travel experiences.  Travel shall not be approved if unsafe conditions exist.  If unsafe conditions arise after travel has been approved, the Principal, Superintendent, and /or School Board reserve the right to conduct a safety review of the trip and to cancel the trip if conditions warrant such action.  Unsafe conditions include, but are not limited to, adverse weather conditions, outbreaks of serious communicable diseases and actual or threatened violence or terrorism.  Should a trip be canceled due to safety concerns, the school district will not reimburse travelers for unrecoverable lost fees.  Therefore, the school district encourages travelers to secure cancellation insurance (at their own expense) to provide protection against possible trip cancellation.  All travel will be arranged by the sponsor and/or transportation director.  Under no conditions is travel approved with student drivers.  Students are never approved to drive other students to, from or during school-sponsored trips.






Supervision of Students


Students should never be left behind and/or unsupervised while under the custody of the district.  Principals and/or sponsors will provide enough supervision to assure the safety of students.  While this supervision will vary across activities, the minimum supervision allowed will be one (1) chaperone to ten (10) students, unless approved by the Principal in advance of the trip.  Students must be provided chaperones of the same gender.  Care should be exercised in selecting adult supervisors.  They should be persons of good report.  They should be the parents or teachers of students.  Other supervisors (if used) must be prior approved by the Principal, be over the age of twenty-one, and be subject to a criminal background check at the chaperones expense.  Supervisors may not share private sleeping rooms, such as motel rooms, with students other than their own children.


Emergencies and Accidents


In case of an emergency occurring during the trip, the chaperone is authorized to make those adjustments necessary to insure the safety and well-being of the students and will immediately report the emergency to the principal of the school.  All circumstances related to any accident will be documented and reported in writing to the Superintendent.


Insurance


Approved trips are covered by the school’s liability insurance.  However, prior to the trip approval and the travel is through a private carrier, the School Board or Superintendent may require additional travel insurance to protect the financial status of the school district and to help families cover expenses should accidents occur.


Non-School Sponsored Trips


Private trips are not activities of the Brookland School District, and the district assumes no liability for such trips.  If a staff member organizes a private trip unconnected to school, the Brookland School District will not approve or disapprove the trip.  Responsibility rests with the staff member and the travel agency involved in the planning of the trip.  To safeguard the district from liability, the following procedures shall be followed.


1.        Classroom time shall not be used to organize or participate in privately-sponsored trips.
2.        The use of school facilities and the promotion and advertisement of the trip shall conform to the district policies and guidelines for community use of school facilities.
3.        Staff members shall not use school equipment or materials in planning or promoting a privately-sponsored trip.
4.        All materials developed to advertise the trip shall clearly inform parents that the trip is not sponsored by the Brookland School District.
5.        There shall be no relationship between involvement in the trip and course grades or credit.
6.        The Brookland School Board recognizes that travel may impact other programs, services, and the general operation of the schools.  To minimize the impact, the Board does not approve absences for non-sanctioned trips that require staff to miss work days.


Guidelines for School Board and Approval of Extended Travel


While the Board of Education recognizes the educational value of off-campus experiences, it should not be assumed that making an application for travel approval means the travel will always be approved.  The School Board expects that any application of extended travel has sound educational justification and meets the high expectations of the district for student safety and financial equity.
Groups are more likely to gain travel approval if:
1.        There is high educational value.
2.        The cost per student is not excessive.
3.        Minimal school time is missed.
4.        There are no equivalent opportunities that are closer and less expensive.
5.        Safety concerns have been addressed.
6.        Adequate insurance is built into the plan.
7.        There is a high degree of student and parent support.
8.        There is adequate time and methods to earn money for the trip.
9.        There is no pressure placed on non-participating students who are members of the group.
10.        The group has been reasonable in its previous travel requests (location and cost) and has had success in previous travel (i.e., no problems).


RULES FOR STUDENT CONDUCT


Definitions 


"Appropriate interim learning environment" means an appropriate learning environment that is used for a period of time not to exceed ten (10) days. 


"Appropriate learning environment" means a setting within the District that provides a similar structure to the following, without limitation: 
1. A classroom; or 
2. In-school suspension. 

"Violent or abusive behavior" means, without limitation: 
   1. Using threatening language; 
   2. Throwing an item that risks or causes: 
   * Harm to another individual; 
   * Injury to another individual; or 
   * Damage to property;     
   3. Physically abusing a teacher or another student; or 
   4. Any other similar action that presents a physical danger or a threat of physical danger to a teacher or another student. 
No student shall by the use of violence, force, noise, coercion, threat, intimidation, fear, passive resistance, or any other conduct, intentionally cause the disruption of any lawful mission, process, or function of the school, or engage in any such conduct for the purpose of causing disruption or obstruction of any lawful mission, process, or function. Nor shall any student encourage any other student to engage in such activities. 


Disorderly activities by any student or group of students that adversely affect the school’s orderly educational environment shall not be tolerated at any time on school grounds. 


A teacher may, but is not required to, remove a student from class: 
   * Who has been documented by the teacher as repeatedly interfering with the teacher's ability to teach the students in the class or with the ability of the student's classmates to learn; or 
   * Whose behavior is so unruly, disruptive, violent, or abusive that it seriously interferes with the teacher’s ability to teach the students, the class, or with the ability of the student’s classmates to learn. 
A student who is removed from class shall: 
   * Be sent to the office of the principal or the principal’s designee; 
   * Be escorted from the classroom by the school administration if the student refuses to leave the classroom voluntarily; 
   * Not be returned to the teacher's class until a conference is held; and 
   * Be placed in another appropriate classroom learning environment until the conference is completed. 
The conference shall be held for the purpose of: 
   1. Determining the causes of the problem that led to the student’s removal and possible solutions; 
   2. Serving as a manifestation determination review if the student removed from the class is a student with a disability; 
   3. Determining if a behavioral threat assessment is necessary for the student who was removed from the class due to violent behavior. 
The following individuals shall be present at the conference: 
   1. The principal or the principal's designee; 
   2. The teacher; 
   3. The school counselor; 
   4. A 504/special education representative (if applicable); 
   5. The parents, legal guardians, persons having lawful control of the student, or persons standing in loco parentis; and 
   6. The student, if appropriate. 
The failure of the parents, legal guardians, persons having lawful control of the student, or persons standing in loco parentis to attend the conference shall not prevent the conference from being held nor prevent any action from being taken as a result of that conference. 


Following the conclusion of the conference, the principal or the principal’s designee may take any of the following actions against a student who was removed from class: 
   * Place the student into another appropriate learning environment or into in-school suspension; 
   * Except for a student who was removed for violent or abusive behavior, return the student to the class; or 
   * Take other appropriate action consistent with the District's discipline policy, state law, and federal law.
A student who is removed from class three (3) times during the same school year shall be placed in another appropriate learning environment for the remainder of the school year. 


The District shall follow all requirements under the IDEA and 504 for students with a disability, including those surrounding a change in placement.  


Students and staff require a safe and orderly learning environment that is conducive to high student achievement.  Certain student behaviors are unacceptable in such an environment and are hereby prohibited by the School Board.  Prohibited behaviors include, but shall not be limited to the following, whether on the school grounds, at a school activity, function, or event, or in route to and from school. (Arkansas Law 6-18-514)


RULE 1 DISRUPTION AND INTERFERENCE WITH SCHOOL


No student shall:
   * Occupy any school building or properties with intent to deprive others of its use or where the effect thereof is to deprive others of its use.
   * Block the doorway or corridor of any school building or property so as to deprive others of access thereto.
   * Prevent or attempt to prevent the convening or continued functioning of any school class activity or lawful meeting or assembly on the school campus.
   * Prevent students from attending a class or school activity.
   * Continuously and intentionally make noise or act in any other manner so as to interfere with the teacher=s ability to conduct classes or any other school activities.
   * In any manner by the use of violence, force, noise, coercion, threat, intimidation, harassment, fear, passive resistance, or any other conduct intentionally cause the disruption of any lawful process or function of the school or engage in any such conduct for the purpose of causing the disruption or obstruction of any lawful process or function.
   * Refuse to identify himself/herself on request of any teacher, substitute teacher, administrator, or other school employee.
   * Block normal pedestrian or vehicular traffic on the school campus or adjacent grounds unless under the direction of a school official.
   * Encourage other students to violate any rules or school board policy.


Minimum- Conference/Warning/Parent Notification
Maximum- Expulsion


RULE 2 DAMAGE, DESTRUCTION, OR THEFT OF SCHOOL PROPERTY


A student shall not cause or attempt to cause damage to school property or steal or attempt to steal school property.  Brookland Public Schools will recover damages from the student destroying school property.  Parents of minor students under the age of 18 will be liable for damage or theft caused by said minor.


Minimum- Conference/Warning/Parent Notification
Maximum- Recommendation for expulsion


The Superintendent and the Board of Education shall complete the expulsion process of any student that was initiated because the student possessed a firearm or other prohibited weapon on school property regardless of the enrollment status of the student.  (Ark Law 6-18-507)


RULE 3 FIGHTING/VIOLENCE


Fighting or any act of violence is an obvious disruption at school or at any school event or activity and will not be tolerated.  Students will be deemed as fighting when blows are being exchanged with a display of anger being present.  If a student is found to have not initiated the fight, alternative punishment may be applied with regard to actual involvement. In cases where premeditation or potential for serious injury exists, local law enforcement authorities will be notified.   (Arkansas Law 5-71-207, Act 1108 of 1997)


Minimum- Conference/Warning/Parent Notification
Maximum- Recommendation for expulsion


RULE 4 NARCOTICS, ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES, AND DRUGS


An orderly and safe school environment that is conducive to promoting student achievement requires a student population free from the dangerous effects of alcohol and drugs. Their use is illegal, disruptive to the educational environment, and diminishes the capacity of students to learn and function properly in our schools. Therefore, no student in the Brookland School District shall possess, attempt to possess, consume, use, distribute, sell, buy, attempt to sell, attempt to buy, give to any person, or be under the influence of any substance as defined in this policy, or what the student represents or believes to be any substance as defined in this policy.  The policy applies to any student who; is on or about school property, is in attendance at school or any school sponsored activity, has left the school campus for any  reason and returns to the campus, is en route to or from school or any school sponsored activity.  Prohibited substances shall include, but are not limited to, alcohol, or any alcoholic beverage, inhalants or any ingestible matter that alter the students ability to act, think or respond, LSD, or any other hallucinogen, marijuana, cocaine, heroin, or any other narcotic drug, PCP, amphetamines, steroids, designer drugs, look-alike drugs, paraphernalia pertaining to these, any prescribed medication (without notification of school authorities), or any controlled substance.  Students who are taking prescribed medicine must notify the office of such prescriptions.


Selling, distributing, or attempting to sell or distribute, or using over-the-counter or prescription drugs not in accordance with the recommended dosage is prohibited.  (Act 509 of 1971 and 1108 of 1997)
          
Minimum- 10 day OSS 
Maximum- Recommendation for expulsion/reported to legal authorities


RULE 5 WEAPONS —4.22


Definitions 


“Firearm" means any device designed, made, or adapted to expel a projectile by the action of an explosive or any device readily convertible to that use. 


“Possession” means having a weapon on the student’s body or in an area under the student’s control. 


“Weapon” means any: 
   * Firearm; 
   * Knife; 
   * Razor; 
   * Ice pick; 
   * Dirk; 
   * Box cutter; 
   * Nunchucks; 
   * Pepper spray, mace, or other noxious spray; 
   * Explosive; 
   * Taser or other instrument that uses electrical current to cause neuromuscular incapacitation; or 
   * Any other instrument or substance capable of causing bodily harm. 
No student, except for Military personnel (such as ROTC cadets) acting in the course of their official duties or as otherwise expressly permitted by this policy, shall possess a weapon, display what appears to be a weapon, or threaten to use a weapon before or after school while: 
   * In a school building; 
   * On or about school property; 
   * At any school sponsored activity or event; 
   * On route to or from school or any school sponsored activity; or 
   * Off the school grounds at any school bus stop. 
If a student discovers prior to any questioning or search by any school personnel that he/she has accidentally brought a weapon, other than a firearm, to school on his/her person, in a book bag/purse, or in his/her vehicle on school grounds, and the student informs the principal or a staff person immediately, the student will not be considered to be in possession of a weapon unless it is a firearm. The weapon shall be confiscated and held in the office until such time as the student’s parent/legal guardian shall pick up the weapon from the school’s office. Repeated offenses are unacceptable and shall be grounds for disciplinary action against the student as otherwise provided for in this policy. 


Except as permitted in this policy, students found to be in possession on the school campus of a firearm shall be recommended for expulsion for a period of one (1) year. The superintendent shall have the discretion to modify such expulsion recommendation for a student on a case-by-case basis.1 


Parents or legal guardians of students expelled under this policy shall be given a copy of the current laws regarding the possibility of parental responsibility for allowing a child to possess a firearm on school property. Parents or legal guardians shall sign a statement acknowledging that they have read and understand said laws prior to readmitting the student. Parents or legal guardians of a student enrolling from another school after the expiration of an expulsion period for a firearm policy violation shall also be given a copy of the current laws regarding the possibility of parental responsibility for allowing a child to possess a firearm on school property. The parents or legal guardians shall sign a statement acknowledging that they have read and understand said laws prior to the student being enrolled in school. 


The mandatory expulsion requirement for possession of a firearm does not apply to a firearm brought to school for the purpose of participating in activities approved and authorized by the district that include the use of firearms. Such activities may include ROTC programs; hunting safety or military education; or before or after-school hunting or rifle clubs. Firearms brought to school for such purposes shall be brought to the school employee designated to receive such firearms. The designated employee shall store the firearms in a secure location until they are removed for use in the approved activity. 


The district shall report any student who brings a firearm to school to the criminal justice system or juvenile delinquency system by notifying local law enforcement. 
 
________________


1 The exemption is for IDEA purposes where the possession can reasonably be associated with the student's disability. To be eligible for ESEA funds, the federal Department of Education requires an assurance that the district: 
   1. Is in compliance with the State law requiring the one-year expulsion; and 
   2. A description of the circumstances surrounding expulsions imposed under the one-year expulsion requirement, including: 
   1. The name of the school concerned; 
   2. The number of students expelled from the school; and 
   3. The type of firearms concerned. 
This requirement applies even in the instances where the district exercised its option to modify the expulsion requirement on a case-by-case basis. The DOE Guidance on the Gun Free Schools Act prohibits the use of the case-by-case option to avoid “over-all compliance with the one-year expulsion requirement. In order to modify the expulsion recommendation, the superintendent must provide a written explanation behind the modification under the Federal law.  
 
Last Revised: July 2026




Minimum- 10 day OSS 
Maximum- Recommendation for expulsion/reported to legal authorities


RULE 6 FIREWORKS


A student shall not possess, handle, or store firecrackers, smoke bombs, stink bombs, or any other kind of fireworks that could be a danger to him/her or to other students that could cause damage to school property, or that could be disruptive to the learning environment of the school.


Minimum- Suspension not to exceed 10 days
Maximum- Recommendation for expulsion


RULE 7 DISREGARD OF DIRECTIONS OR COMMANDS/INSUBORDINATION


A student shall comply with reasonable directions or commands of teachers, student teachers, substitute teachers, teacher aides, administrative personnel, school bus drivers, school security officers, and other authorized personnel.


Minimum- Conference/Warning/Parent Notification
Maximum- Recommendation for expulsion


RULE 8 MEMBER OF FRATERNITIES, SORORITIES, SECRET CLUBS OR GANGS


A public school fraternity, sorority, or other secret organization or society means any type of organization or society which fosters undemocratic practices and seeks to perpetuate itself by taking in additional members from the pupils enrolled in that school or local school system on the basis of the decision of its membership rather than upon the free choice of any pupil in the school who is qualified by the rules of the school to fill the special aims of the organization or society.


Gangs, which initiate, advocate or promote activities which threaten the safety or well-being of persons or property on school grounds or school-sponsored activity or which disrupt the school environment and/or school activity are harmful to the education process.  The use of hand signals, graffiti, or the presence of any apparel, jewelry, accessory or manner of grooming which, by virtue of its color, arrangement, trademark, symbol or any other attribute which indicates or implies membership of affiliation with such a group, presents a clear and present danger.  This is contrary to the school environment and educational objectives and creates an atmosphere where unlawful acts or violations of school regulations may occur.  Any student who joins or promises to join, or who solicits other persons to join or promise to join such a group is in violation of school policy.


Minimum- Conference/Warning/Parent Notification
Maximum- Recommendation for expulsion


RULE 9 SMOKING AND SMOKELESS TOBACCO


Smoking or use of tobacco or products containing tobacco in any form (including, but not limited to, cigarettes, cigars, chewing tobacco, and snuff) in or on any real property owned or leased by a District school, including school buses owned or leased by the District, is prohibited. Students who violate this policy may be subject to legal proceedings in addition to student disciplinary measures.


With the exception of recognized tobacco cessation products, this policy’s prohibition includes any tobacco or nicotine delivery system or product. Specifically, the prohibition includes any product that is manufactured, distributed, marketed, or sold as e-cigarettes, e-cigars, e-pipes, or under any other name or descriptor.


Legal Reference:        A.C.A. § 6-21-609


Minimum- Conference/Warning/Parent Notification
Maximum- Recommendation for expulsion


RULE 10 PROFANITY/VULGARITY


A student shall not use abusive, vulgar, profane, or obscene language or gestures at school or at any school-sponsored event or activity, or on school property, not have in his/her possession any pornographic or obscene material.


Minimum- Conference/Warning/Parent Notification
Maximum- Recommendation for expulsion


RULE 11 GAMBLING


Gambling in any form is not permitted on school property at any time.  When in question, the administration will have the authority to determine whether or not gambling has occurred.


Minimum- Conference/Warning/Parent Notification
Maximum- Recommendation for expulsion


RULE 12 PUBLIC DISPLAY OF AFFECTION


Public display of affection of any kind is inappropriate behavior at school or at any school-sponsored activity or event.  Failure to comply with reasonable expectations of school staff will lead to disciplinary action.


Minimum- Conference/Warning/Parent Notification
Maximum- Recommendation for expulsion


RULE 13 POSSESSION AND USE OF ELECTRONIC DEVICES—4.47


District-wide:


Note: This policy is from the ASBA policy. 
4.47— POSSESSION AND USE OF PERSONAL ELECTRONIC DEVICES


Definitions
“Emergency” means a serious, unexpected, and dangerous situation that requires immediate action, including without limitation:
   * An active fire;
   * An active tornado or earthquake;
   * An active shooter;
   * An evacuation of school grounds; or
   * A medical emergency


“Personal electronic device” means without limitation a:
   1. Cellular telephone;
   2. Paging device;
   3. Beeper;
   4. Mobile telephone that offers advanced computing and internet accessibility;
   5. Digital media player;
   6. Portable game console;
   7. Tablet, notebook, or laptop computer;
   8. Digital camera;
   9. Digital video or audio recorder;
   10. Smart watch; and
   11. Device that can connect and transmit data through Bluetooth technology.


“School day” means from the time students are required to be at school until the time students are dismissed from school. Students’ electronic devices must be POWERED OFF AND OUT OF SIGHT once a student arrives on school campus until 3:15pm.


Possession of Personal Electronic Device
Except as permitted under this policy, a student shall not be in possession of a personal electronic device during the school day. Students’ electronic devices must be POWERED OFF AND OUT OF SIGHT once a student arrives on school campus until 3:15pm. In unique situations where students need to contact a parent/guardian/employer, they may use the office phone or speak to an administrator or SRO. 
A student may possess a personal electronic device during the school day if:
   * The personal electronic device is required by the student’s individual education plan (IEP), 504 Plan, or Individual Health Plan for health reasons;
   * The possession of the personal electronic device is during an emergency as defined by this policy;
   * The personal electronic device is issued by the District for the student’s use during the school day; or
   * The possession of the personal electronic device is during a special event during the school day.
   * The student is enrolled in an endorsed concurrent enrollment course at an institution of higher education, and the use of the personal electronic device is necessary in order to utilize two-factor authentication to access course work and resources for the endorsed concurrent enrollment course. The use of the personal electronic device shall be limited to the time necessary to complete the two-factor authentication process.


A student shall be deemed to not be in possession of a personal electronic device if:


Use Of Personal Electronic Device
Except as permitted by this policy, a student shall not use a personal electronic device during the school day. A student may use a personal electronic device during the school day if:
   * The personal electronic device is required by the student’s individual education plan (IEP), 504 Plan, or Individual Health Plan for health reasons;1
   * The use of the personal electronic device is during an emergency as defined by this policy;
   * The personal electronic device is issued by the District for the student’s use during the school day; or
   * The use of the personal electronic device is during a special event during the school day.
   * The student is enrolled in an endorsed concurrent enrollment course at an institution of higher education, and the use of the personal electronic device is necessary in order to utilize two-factor authentication to access course work and resources for the endorsed concurrent enrollment course. The use of the personal electronic device shall be limited to the time necessary to complete the two-factor authentication process.


A student may possess and use a personal electronic device at a special school event for the purpose of taking photographs. The District shall inform the students and students’ parents, legal guardians, persons having lawful control of the student, and persons standing in loco parentis the following before a special school event takes place:
   * When and where the special school event will take place;
   * Whether or not personal electronic devices shall be allowed at the special school event; and
   * Where personal electronic devices may be used at the special school event.


The use of personal electronic devices at school sponsored functions outside the regular school day is permitted to the extent and within the limitations allowed by the event or activity the student is attending.




Definitions
“Emergency” means a serious, unexpected, and dangerous situation that requires immediate action, including without limitation:
   * An active fire;
   * An active tornado or earthquake;
   * An active shooter;
   * An evacuation of school grounds; or
   * A medical emergency


“Personal electronic device” means without limitation a:
   1. Cellular telephone;
   2. Paging device;
   3. Beeper;
   4. Mobile telephone that offers advanced computing and internet accessibility;
   5. Digital media player;
   6. Portable game console;
   7. Tablet, notebook, or laptop computer;
   8. Digital camera;
   9. Digital video or audio recorder;
   10. Smart watch; and
   11. Device that can connect and transmit data through Bluetooth technology.


“School day” means from the time students are required to be at school until the time students are dismissed from school. Students’ electronic devices must be POWERED OFF AND OUT OF SIGHT once a student arrives on school campus until 3:15pm.


Possession of Personal Electronic Device
Except as permitted under this policy, a student shall not be in possession of a personal electronic device during the school day. Students’ electronic devices must be POWERED OFF AND OUT OF SIGHT once a student arrives on school campus until 3:15pm. In unique situations where students need to contact a parent/guardian/employer, they may use the office phone or speak to an administrator or SRO. 
A student may possess a personal electronic device during the school day if:
   * The personal electronic device is required by the student’s individual education plan (IEP), 504 Plan, or Individual Health Plan for health reasons;1
   * The possession of the personal electronic device is during an emergency as defined by this policy;
   * The personal electronic device is issued by the District for the student’s use during the school day; or
   * The possession of the personal electronic device is during a special event during the school day.


A student shall be deemed to not be in possession of a personal electronic device if:


Use Of Personal Electronic Device
Except as permitted by this policy, a student shall not use a personal electronic device during the school day. A student may use a personal electronic device during the school day if:
   * The personal electronic device is required by the student’s individual education plan (IEP), 504 Plan, or Individual Health Plan for health reasons;1
   * The use of the personal electronic device is during an emergency as defined by this policy;
   * The personal electronic device is issued by the District for the student’s use during the school day; or
   * The use of the personal electronic device is during a special event during the school day.
   * The student is enrolled in an endorsed concurrent enrollment course at an institution of higher education, and the use of the personal electronic device is necessary in order to utilize two-factor authentication to access course work and resources for the endorsed concurrent enrollment course. The use of the personal electronic device shall be limited to the time necessary to complete the two-factor authentication process.


A student may possess and use a personal electronic device at a special school event for the purpose of taking photographs. The District shall inform the students and students’ parents, legal guardians, persons having lawful control of the student, and persons standing in loco parentis the following before a special school event takes place:
   * When and where the special school event will take place;
   * Whether or not personal electronic devices shall be allowed at the special school event; and
   * Where personal electronic devices may be used at the special school event.
The use of personal electronic devices at school sponsored functions outside the regular school day is permitted to the extent and within the limitations allowed by the event or activity the student is attending.


Misuse of Personal Electronic Devices
Even if a student is allowed to possess or use a personal electronic device under this policy, the misuse of a personal electronic device is prohibited. Misuse of personal electronic devices includes, but is not limited to:
   1. Using personal electronic devices issued by the District during class time in any manner other than specifically permitted by the classroom instructor;
   2. Permitting any audible sound to come from the personal electronic device when not being used for reason #1 above;
   3. Engaging in academic dishonesty, including cheating, intentionally plagiarizing, wrongfully giving or receiving help during an academic examination, or wrongfully obtaining test copies or scores;
   4. Using the personal electronic device to record audio or video or to take photographs in areas where a general expectation of personal privacy exists, including but not limited to locker rooms and bathrooms;
   5. Creating, sending, sharing, viewing, receiving, or possessing an indecent visual depiction of oneself or another person regardless of whether the image is real or created through the use of artificial intelligence;
   6. Using a personal electronic device issued by the District in a manner that violates the Electronic Device and Internet Use Agreement regardless of whether the violation occurred on or off campus;
   7. Using a personal electronic device at an event during the school day that was not designated as a special school event or in a manner or location that was not authorized as part of the special school event;
   8. Using personal electronic devices issued by the District while driving any vehicle at any time;3 or
   9. Using a personal electronic device for the purposes of browsing the internet; composing or reading emails and text messages; or making or answering phone calls while driving a motor vehicle that is in motion and on school property.


Discipline
A student may have a personal electronic device confiscated if:
   * The student is found to possess or use a personal electronic device when the use or possession is not authorized by this policy and the personal electronic device was not issued by the District;
   * The student misuses a personal electronic device as defined by this policy; or
   * The student’s parent, legal guardian, person having lawful control of the student, or person standing in loco parentis uses the remote recording or listening capabilities of a personal electronic device, either through an app installed on the personal electronic device or the built-in capacity of the personal electronic device, except when authorized by the District.


Confiscated personal electronic devices may be picked up at the school’s administration office by the student’s parent, legal guardian, person having lawful control of the student, or person standing in loco parentis . Students have no right of privacy as to the content contained on any personal electronic devices that have been confiscated. A search of a confiscated device shall meet the reasonable individualized suspicion requirements of Policy 4.32—SEARCH, SEIZURE, AND INTERROGATIONS.
A student and the student’s parents, legal guardians, persons having lawful control of the student, or persons standing in loco parentis expressly assume any risk associated with a student’s possession or use of a student’s personal electronic device that is not issued by the District. The District shall not be liable for a personal electronic device that is confiscated if the personal electronic device is lost, stolen, or damaged.
In addition to the confiscation of a personal electronic device for a violation of this policy, a student may be subject to the following discipline:
To protect the integrity of the administration of the assessments under the Arkansas Educational Support and Accountability Act, a student who is found to be in possession of or to use a personal electronic device during the administration of a statewide assessment that is not required by the student’s IEP, 504 Plan, or issued by the District shall have the discipline the student is subject to increased by an additional level.
 
 
Last Revised: June 2025




Minimum- Conference/Warning/Parent Notification
Maximum- Recommendation for Expulsion


RULE 14 THREAT OF PHYSICAL ABUSE/ASSAULT OF ANOTHER STUDENT—4.21


A student shall not threaten, physically abuse, attempt to physically abuse, or behave in such a way as to be perceived to threaten bodily harm to any other person (student, school employee, or school visitor). Any gestures; vulgar, abusive, or insulting language; taunting, threatening, harassing, or intimidating remarks by a student toward another person that threatens their well-being is strictly forbidden. This includes, but is not limited to, fighting, racial, ethnic, religious, or sexual slurs. 


Furthermore, it is unlawful, during regular school hours, and in a place where a public school employee is required to be in the course of his or her duties, for any person to address a public school employee using language which, in its common acceptation, is calculated to: 
   1. Cause a breach of the peace; 
   2. Materially and substantially interfere with the operation of the school; or 
   3. Arouse the person to whom it is addressed to anger, to the extent likely to cause imminent retaliation. 
Students guilty of such an offense may be subject to legal proceedings in addition to any student disciplinary measures.  
 
Last Revised: July 2026


Minimum- Conference/Warning
Maximum- Recommendation for Expulsion


RULE 15 PHYSICAL ABUSE/ASSAULT OF A SCHOOL EMPLOYEE


A student will not harass, threaten, or attempt to cause injury or physical harm to any school employee, nor will a student strike or beat a school employee or direct verbal abuse toward a school employee.  This action is considered as a Class D felony in Arkansas Law (Act 207 of 1997).


A student who commits assault or battery upon any member of the faculty or staff of Brookland Public Schools will be recommended for expulsion, and will be reported to legal authorities.  (Arkansas Law 6-17-106, Act 706 of 1997)


Recommendation for expulsion/notification of legal authorities


RULE 16 SEXUAL HARASSMENT—4.27
 
The Brookland School District is committed to providing an academic environment that treats all students with respect and dignity. Student achievement is best attained in an atmosphere of equal educational opportunity that is free of discrimination. Sexual harassment is a form of discrimination that undermines the integrity of the educational environment and will not be tolerated.
 The District believes the best policy to create an educational environment free from sexual harassment is prevention; therefore, the District shall provide informational materials and training to students, parents/legal guardians/other responsible adults, and employees on sexual harassment. The informational materials and training on sexual harassment shall be age appropriate and, when necessary, provided in a language other than English or in an accessible format. The informational materials and training shall include, but are not limited to:
o        The nature of sexual harassment;
o        The District’s written procedures governing the formal complaint grievance process;1
o        The process for submitting a formal complaint of sexual harassment;
o        That the district does not tolerate sexual harassment;
o        That students can report inappropriate behavior of a sexual nature without fear of adverse consequences;
o        The supports that are available to individuals suffering sexual harassment; and
o        The potential discipline for perpetrating sexual harassment.
 
RULE 17 LASERPOINTERS 4.28
Students shall not possess any hand held laser pointer while in school; on or about school property, before or after school; in attendance at school or any school-sponsored activity; on route to or from school or any school-sponsored activity; off the school grounds at any school bus stop or at any school-sponsored activity or event. School personnel shall seize any laser pointer from the student possessing it and the student may reclaim it at the close of the school year, or when the student is no longer enrolled in the District. 




Definitions
“Complainant” means an individual who is alleged to be the victim of conduct that could constitute sexual harassment.
 “Education program or activity” includes locations, events, or circumstances where the District exercised substantial control over both the respondent and the context in which the sexual harassment occurs.
 “Formal complaint” means a document filed by a complainant or signed by the Title IX Coordinator alleging sexual harassment against a respondent and requesting an investigation of the allegation of sexual harassment.
 
“Respondent” means an individual who has been reported to be the perpetrator of conduct that could constitute sexual harassment.
 “Sexual harassment” means conduct on the basis of sex that satisfies one or more of the following:
1.                   A District employee:
a.                   Conditions the provision of an aid, benefit, or service of the District on an individual’s participation in sexual conduct;2 or
b.                   Uses the rejection of sexual conduct as the basis for academic decisions affecting that individual;2
2.                   The conduct is:
a.                   Unwelcome; and
b.                   Determined by a reasonable person to be so severe, pervasive, and objectively offensive that it effectively denies a person equal access to the District’s education program or activity; or
3.                   Constitutes:
a.                   Sexual assault;
b.                   Dating violence
c.                   Domestic violence; or
d.                   Stalking.
 “Supportive measures” means individualized services that are offered to the complainant or made available to the respondent designed to restore or preserve equal access to the District’s education program or activity without unreasonably burdening the other party. The supportive measures must be non-disciplinary and non-punitive in nature; offered before or after the filing of a formal complaint or where no formal complaint has been filed; and offered to either party as appropriate, as reasonably available, and without fee or charge. Examples of supportive measures include, but are not limited to: measures designed to protect the safety of all parties or the District’s educational environment, or deter sexual harassment; counseling; extensions of deadlines or other course-related adjustments; modifications of work or class schedules; campus escort services; mutual restrictions on contact between the parties; changes in work or class locations; leaves of absence; and increased security and monitoring of certain areas of the campus.
 Within the educational environment, sexual harassment is prohibited between any of the following: students; employees and students; and non-employees and students.
 Actionable sexual harassment is generally established when an individual is exposed to a pattern of objectionable behaviors or when a single, serious act is committed. What is, or is not, sexual harassment will depend upon all of the surrounding circumstances and may occur regardless of the sex(es) of the individuals involved. Depending upon such circumstances, examples of sexual harassment include, but are not limited to:
·                     Making sexual propositions or pressuring for sexual activities;
·                     Unwelcome touching;
·                     Writing graffiti of a sexual nature;
·                     Displaying or distributing sexually explicit drawings, pictures, or written materials;
·                     Performing sexual gestures or touching oneself sexually in front of others;
·                     Telling sexual or crude jokes;
·                     Spreading rumors related to a person’s alleged sexual activities;
·                     Discussions of sexual experiences;
·                     Rating other students or employees as to sexual activity or performance;
·                     Circulating or showing e-mails or Web sites of a sexual nature;
·                     Intimidation by words, actions, insults, or name calling; and
·                     Teasing or name-calling related to sexual characteristics or the belief or perception that an individual is not conforming to expected gender roles or conduct or is homosexual, regardless of whether or not the individual self-identifies as homosexual or transgender.
 Students who believe they have been subjected to sexual harassment, or the parent/legal guardian/other responsible adult of a student who believes their student has been subjected to sexual harassment, are encouraged to bring their concerns to any District staff member, including a counselor, teacher, Title IX coordinator, or administrator. If the District staff member who received a report of alleged sexual harassment is not the Title IX Coordinator, then the District staff person shall inform the Title IX Coordinator of the alleged sexual harassment. As soon as reasonably possible after receiving a report of alleged sexual harassment from another District staff member or after receiving a report directly through any means, the Title IX Coordinator shall contact the complainant to:
§     Discuss the availability of supportive measures;
§     Consider the complainant’s wishes with respect to supportive measures;
§     Inform the complainant of the availability of supportive measures with or without the filing of a formal complaint; and
§     explain to the complainant the process for filing a formal complaint.
 Supportive Measures
The District shall offer supportive measures to the complainant and make supportive measures available to the respondent that are designed to restore or preserve equal access to the District’s education program or activity without unreasonably burdening the other party before or after the filing of a formal complaint or where no formal complaint has been filed. The District shall provide individualized supportive measures to the complainant unless declined in writing by the complainant and shall provide individualized supportive measures that are non-disciplinary ad  non-punitive to the respondent. A complainant who initially declined the District’s offer of supportive measures may request supportive measures at a later time and the District shall provide individualized supportive measures based on the circumstances when the subsequent request is received.
 
Formal Complaint
A formal complaint may be filed with the Title IX Coordinator in person, by mail, or by email. Upon receipt of a formal complaint, a District shall simultaneously provide the following written notice to the parties who are known:
o        Notice of the District’s grievance process and a copy of the procedures governing the grievance process;
o        Notice of the allegations of sexual harassment including sufficient details known at the time and with sufficient time to prepare a response before any initial interview. Sufficient details include:
                  The identities of the parties involved in the incident, if known;
                  The conduct allegedly constituting sexual harassment; and
                  The date and location of the alleged incident, if known;
o        A statement that the respondent is presumed not responsible for the alleged conduct and that a determination regarding responsibility is made at the conclusion of the grievance process;
o        That the parties may have an advisor of their choice, who may be, but is not required to be, an attorney;
o        That the parties may inspect and review evidence relevant to the complaint of sexual harassment; and
o        That the District’s code of conduct prohibits knowingly making false statements or knowingly submitting false information during the grievance process.
 If, in the course of an investigation, the District decides to investigate allegations about the complainant or respondent that are not included in the previous notice, the District shall simultaneously provide notice of the additional allegations to the parties whose identities are known.
 The District may consolidate formal complaints of allegations of sexual harassment where the allegations of sexual harassment arise out of the same facts or circumstances and the formal complaints are against more than one respondent; or by more than one complainant against one or more respondents; or by one party against the other party. When the District has consolidated formal complaints so that the grievance process involves more than one complainant or more than one respondent, references to the singular “party”, “complainant”, or “respondent” include the plural, as applicable.
 When investigating a formal complaint and throughout the grievance process, a District shall:
·                     Ensure that the burden of proof and the burden of gathering evidence sufficient to reach a determination regarding responsibility rest on the District and not on the parties;
·                     Not require, allow, rely upon, or otherwise use questions or evidence that constitute, or seek disclosure of, information protected under a legally recognized privilege or access, consider, disclose, or otherwise use a party’s records that are made or maintained by a physician, psychiatrist, psychologist, or other recognized professional or paraprofessional acting in the professional’s or paraprofessional’s capacity, or assisting in that capacity, and which are made and maintained in connection with the provision of treatment to the party unless the District obtains the parent, legal guardian, or other responsible adult of that party’s voluntary, written consent or that party’s voluntary, written consent if the party is over the age of eighteen (18) to do so for the grievance process;
·                     Provide an equal opportunity for the parties to present witnesses, including fact and expert witnesses, and other inculpatory and exculpatory evidence;
·                     Not restrict the ability of either party to discuss the allegations under investigation or to gather and present relevant evidence;
·                     Provide the parties with the same opportunities to have others present during any grievance proceeding, including the opportunity to be accompanied to any related meeting or proceeding by the advisor of their choice, who may be, but is not required to be, an attorney, and not limit the choice or presence of advisor for either the complainant or respondent in any meeting or grievance proceeding;
·                     Provide, to a party whose participation is invited or expected, written notice of the date, time, location, participants, and purpose of all hearings, investigative interviews, or other meetings, with sufficient time for the party to prepare to participate;
·                     Provide both parties an equal opportunity to inspect and review any evidence obtained as part of the investigation that is directly related to the allegations raised in the formal complaint so that each party can meaningfully respond to the evidence prior to the conclusion of the investigation; this includes evidence:
§     Whether obtained from a party or other source;
§         The District does not intend to rely upon in reaching a determination regarding responsibility; and
§         That is either Inculpatory or exculpatory; and
·                     Create an investigative report that fairly summarizes relevant evidence.
 
At least ten (10)3 days prior to completion of the investigative report, the District shall send to each party and the party’s advisor, if any, the evidence subject to inspection and review in an electronic format or a hard copy. The parties shall have at least ten (10)3 days to submit a written response to the evidence. The investigator will consider the written responses prior to completion of the investigative report. All evidence subject to inspection and review shall be available for the parties’ inspection and review at any meeting to give each party equal opportunity to refer to such evidence during the meeting.
 After the investigative report is sent to the parties, the decision-maker shall:
o        Provide each party the opportunity to submit written, relevant questions that a party wants asked of any party or witness;
o        Provide each party with the answers;
o        Allow for additional, limited follow-up questions from each party; and
o        Provide an explanation to the party proposing the questions any decision to exclude a question as not relevant. Specifically, questions and evidence about the complainant’s sexual predisposition or prior sexual behavior are not relevant, unless such questions and evidence about the complainant’s prior sexual behavior are offered to prove that someone other than the respondent committed the conduct alleged by the complainant, or if the questions and evidence concern specific incidents of the complainant’s prior sexual behavior with respect to the respondent and are offered to prove consent.
 No earlier than ten (10) days following the completion of the investigation period, the decision-maker, who cannot be the same person as the Title IX Coordinator or the investigator, shall issue a written determination regarding responsibility. The written determination shall include—
1.                   Identification of the allegations potentially constituting sexual harassment;
2.                   A description of the procedural steps taken from the receipt of the formal complaint through the determination, including:
a.                   Any notifications to the parties;
b.                   Interviews with parties and witnesses;
c.                   site visits;
d.                   Methods used to gather other evidence; and
e.                   Hearings held;
3.                   Findings of fact supporting the determination;
4.                   Conclusions regarding the application of the District’s code of conduct to the facts;
5.                   A statement of, and rationale for, the result as to each allegation, including:
a.                   A determination regarding responsibility;
b.                   Any disciplinary sanctions imposed on the respondent; and
c.                   Whether remedies designed to restore or preserve equal access to the District’s education program or activity will be provided by the District to the complainant; and
6.                   The procedures and permissible bases for the complainant and respondent to appeal.
 
The written determination shall be provided to the parties simultaneously. The determination regarding responsibility shall become final on the earlier of:
·                     If an appeal is not filed, the day after the period for an appeal to be filed expires; or
·                     If an appeal is filed, the date the written determination of the result of the appeal is provided to the parties.
 
The District shall investigate the allegations in a formal complaint. If the conduct alleged in the formal complaint would not constitute sexual harassment as defined in this policy even if proved; did not occur in the District’s education program or activity; or did not occur against a person in the United States, then the District shall dismiss the complaint as not meeting the definition of sexual harassment under this policy. A dismissal for these reasons does not preclude action under another provision of the District’s code of conduct.
 The District may dismiss the formal complaint or any allegations therein, if at any time during the grievance process:
o        The complainant notifies the Title IX Coordinator in writing that the complainant would like to withdraw the formal complaint or any allegations therein;
o        The respondent is no longer enrolled at the District; or
o        Specific circumstances prevent the District from gathering evidence sufficient to reach a determination as to the formal complaint or allegations therein.
 Upon the dismissal of a formal complaint for any reason, the District shall promptly send written notice of the dismissal and reason(s) for the dismissal simultaneously to the parties.
 The District may hire an individual or individuals to conduct the investigation or to act as the determination-maker when necessary.
 
Appeals
Either party may appeal a determination regarding responsibility or from a dismissal of a formal complaint or any allegations therein, on the following bases:
a.                   The existence of a procedural irregularity that affected the outcome of the matter;
b.                   Discovery of new evidence that was not reasonably available at the time the determination regarding responsibility or dismissal was made, that could affect the outcome of the matter;
c.                   The Title IX Coordinator, investigator, or decision-maker had a conflict of interest or bias for or against complainants or respondents generally or the individual complainant or respondent that affected the outcome of the matter; or
d.                   An appeal of the disciplinary sanctions from the initial determination.
 
For all appeals, the District shall:
1.                   Notify the other party in writing when an appeal is filed;
2.                   Simultaneously Provide all parties a written copy of the District’s procedures governing the appeal process;
3.                   Implement appeal procedures equally for both parties;
4.                   Ensure that the decision-maker5 for the appeal is not the same person as the decision-maker that reached the original determination regarding responsibility or dismissal, the investigator, or the Title IX Coordinator;
5.                   Provide all parties a reasonable, equal opportunity to submit a written statement in support of, or challenging, the outcome;
6.                   Issue a written decision describing the result of the appeal and the rationale for the result; and
7.                   Provide the written decision simultaneously to both parties.
 
Confidentiality
Reports of sexual harassment, both informal reports and formal complaints, will be treated in a confidential manner to the extent possible. Limited disclosure may be provided to:
§     Individuals who are responsible for handling the District’s investigation and determination of responsibility to the extent necessary to complete the District’s grievance process;
§     Submit a report to the child maltreatment hotline;
§     Submit a report to the Professional Licensure Standards Board for reports alleging sexual harassment by an employee towards a student; or
§     The extent necessary to provide either party due process during the grievance process.5
 Except as listed above, the District shall keep confidential the identity of:
                  Any individual who has made a report or complaint of sex discrimination;
                  Any individual who has made a report or filed a formal complaint of sexual harassment;
                  Any complainant;
                  Any individual who has been reported to be the perpetrator of sex discrimination;
                  Any respondent; and
                  Any witness.
 Any supportive measures provided to the complainant or respondent shall be kept confidential to the extent that maintaining such confidentiality does not impair the ability of the District to provide the supportive measures.
 
Emergency removal
The District may remove a respondent from the District’s education program or activity on an emergency basis only after the completion of an individualized safety and risk analysis that determines that an immediate threat to the physical health or safety of any student or other individual arising from the allegations of sexual harassment justifies removal. A removed student will be provided with notice and an opportunity to challenge the removal decision immediately following the removal.
 
Retaliation Prohibited
Students, or the parents/legal guardians/ other responsible adult of a student, who submit a report or file a formal complaint of sexual harassment,; testified; assisted; or participate or refused to participate in any manner in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing on sexual harassment shall not be subjected to retaliation or reprisal in any form, including threats; intimidation; coercion; discrimination; or charges for code of conduct violations that do not involve sex discrimination or sexual harassment, arise out of the same facts or circumstances as a report or formal complaint of sex discrimination, and are made for the purpose of interfering with any right or privilege under this policy. The District shall take steps to prevent retaliation and shall take immediate action if any form of retaliation occurs regardless of whether the retaliatory acts are by District officials, students, or third parties.
 
Disciplinary Sanctions
It shall be a violation of this policy for any student to be subjected to, or to subject another person to, sexual harassment. Following the completion of the District’s grievance process, any student who is found by the evidence to more likely than not7 have engaged in sexual harassment will be subject to disciplinary action up to, and including, expulsion. No disciplinary sanction or other action that is not a supportive measure may be taken against a respondent until the conclusion of the grievance process.
 
Students who knowingly fabricate allegations of sexual harassment or purposely provide inaccurate facts shall be subject to disciplinary action up to and including expulsion. A determination that the allegations do not rise to the level of sexual harassment alone is not sufficient to conclude that any party made a false allegation or materially false statement in bad faith.
 
Records
The District shall maintain the following records for a minimum of seven (7) years:
·                     Each sexual harassment investigation including:
·                     Any determination regarding responsibility;
·                     any disciplinary sanctions imposed on the respondent;
·                     Any remedies provided to the complainant designed to restore or preserve equal access to the District’s education program or activity;
·                     Any appeal and the result therefrom;
·                     All materials used to train Title IX Coordinators, investigators, and decision-makers;
·                     Any actions, including any supportive measures, taken in response to a report or formal complaint of sexual harassment, which must include:
o        The basis for the District’s conclusion that its response was not deliberately indifferent; and
o        Document:
§  If supportive measures were provided to the complainant, the supportive measures taken designed to restore or preserve equal access to the District’s education program or activity; or
§  If no supportive measures were provided to a complainant, document the reasons why such a response was not clearly unreasonable in light of the known circumstances.


 RULE 17 BULLYING—4.43
Definitions
 
“Attribute” means an actual or perceived personal characteristic including without limitation race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, socioeconomic status, academic status, disability, gender, gender identity, physical appearance, health condition, or sexual orientation; 


“Bullying” means the intentional harassment, intimidation, humiliation, ridicule, defamation, or threat or incitement of violence by a student against another student or public school employee by a written, verbal, electronic, or physical act that: 
   1. May address an attribute of the other student, public school employee, or person with whom the other student or public school employee is associated; 
   2. Involves an actual or reasonably perceived power imbalance; 
   3. Is repeated or has a high likelihood of repetition; and 
   4. Causes or creates actual or reasonably foreseeable: 
   * Physical harm to a public school employee or student or damage to the public school employee's or student's property; 
   * Substantial interference with a student's education or with a public school employee's role in education; 
   * A hostile educational environment for one (1) or more students or public school employees due to the severity, persistence, or pervasiveness of the act; or 
   * Substantial disruption of the orderly operation of the school or educational environment. 
Examples of "Bullying" include, but are not limited to, a pattern of behavior involving one or more of the following: 
   1. Cyberbullying; 
   2. Sarcastic comments "compliments" about another student’s personal appearance or actual or perceived attributes; 
   3. Pointed questions intended to embarrass or humiliate; 
   4. Mocking, taunting or belittling; 
   5. Non-verbal threats and/or intimidation such as “fronting” or “chesting” a person; 
   6. Demeaning humor relating to a student’s actual or perceived attributes; 
   7. Blackmail, extortion, demands for protection money or other involuntary donations or loans; 
   8. Blocking access to school property or facilities; 
   9. Deliberate physical contact or injury to person or property; 
   10. Stealing or hiding books or belongings; 
   11. Threats of harm to student(s), possessions, or others; 
   12. Sexual harassment, as governed by policy 4.27, is also a form of bullying; and/or 
   13. Teasing or name-calling related to sexual characteristics or the belief or perception that an individual is not conforming to expected gender roles or conduct or is homosexual, regardless of whether the student self-identifies as homosexual or transgender (Examples: “Slut”, “You are so gay.”, “Fag”, “Queer”). 
"Cyberbullying" means any form of communication by electronic act that is sent with the purpose to: 
   * Harass, intimidate, humiliate, ridicule, defame, or threaten a student, school employee, or person with whom the other student or school employee is associated; or 
   * Incite violence towards a student, school employee, or person with whom the other student or school employee is associated. 
Cyberbullying of School Employees includes, but is not limited to: 
      1. Building a fake profile or website of the employee; 
      2. Posting or encouraging others to post on the Internet private, personal, or sexual information pertaining to a school employee; 
      3. Posting an original or edited image of the school employee on the Internet; 
      4. Accessing, altering, or erasing any computer network, computer data program, or computer software, including breaking into a password-protected account or stealing or otherwise accessing passwords of a school employee; 
      5. Making repeated, continuing, or sustained electronic communications, including electronic mail or transmission, to a school employee; 
      6. Making, or causing to be made, and disseminating an unauthorized copy of data pertaining to a school employee in any form, including without limitation the printed or electronic form of computer data, computer programs, or computer software residing in, communicated by, or produced by a computer or computer network; 
      7. Signing up a school employee for a pornographic Internet site; or 
      8. Without authorization of the school employee, signing up a school employee for electronic mailing lists or to receive junk electronic messages and instant messages. 
Cyberbullying is prohibited whether or not the cyberbullying originated on school property or with school equipment, if the cyberbullying results in the substantial disruption of the orderly operation of the school or educational environment or is directed specifically at students or school personnel and maliciously intended for the purpose of disrupting school and has a high likelihood of succeeding in that purpose. 


“Harassment” means a pattern of unwelcome verbal or physical conduct relating to another person's constitutionally or statutorily protected status that causes, or reasonably should be expected to cause, substantial interference with the other's performance in the school environment. 


“Substantial disruption” means without limitation that any one or more of the following occur as a result of the bullying: 
      * Necessary cessation of instruction or educational activities; 
      * Inability of students or educational staff to focus on learning or function as an educational unit because of a hostile environment; 
      * Severe or repetitive disciplinary measures are needed in the classroom or during educational activities; or 
      * Exhibition of other behaviors by students or educational staff that substantially interfere with the learning environment. 
Respect for the dignity of others is a cornerstone of civil society. Bullying creates an atmosphere of fear and intimidation, robs a person of dignity, detracts from the safe environment necessary to promote student learning, and will not be tolerated by the Board of Directors. Students who bully another person shall be held accountable for their actions whether they occur on school equipment or property; off school property at a school sponsored or approved function, activity, or event; going to or from school or a school activity in a school vehicle or school bus; or at designated school bus stops. 


Students are encouraged to report behavior they consider to be bullying, including a single action which if allowed to continue would constitute bullying, to their teacher or the building principal. The report may be made anonymously. Teachers and other school employees who have witnessed, or are reliably informed that, a student has been a victim of behavior they consider to be bullying, including a single action which if allowed to continue would constitute bullying, shall report the incident(s) to the building principal, or designee, as soon as possible. Parents or legal guardians may submit written reports of incidents they feel constitute bullying, or if allowed to continue would constitute bullying, to the building principal, or designee. 


The person or persons reporting behavior they consider to be bullying shall not be subject to retaliation or reprisal in any form. 
      1. A building principal, or designee, who receives a credible report or complaint of bullying shall: 
      1. As soon as reasonably practicable, but by no later than the end of the school day following the receipt of the credible report of bullying: 
      1. Report to a parent, legal guardian, person having lawful control of a student, or person standing in loco parentis of a student that their student is the victim in a credible report of bullying; and 
      2. Prepare a written report of the alleged incident of bullying; 
      2. Promptly investigate the credible report or complaint of bullying, which shall be completed by no later than the fifth (5th) school day following the completion of the written report. 
      3. Notify within five (5) days following the completion of the investigation the parent, legal guardian, person having lawful control of a student, or person standing in loco parentis of a student who was the alleged victim in a credible report of bullying whether the investigation found the credible report or complaint of bullying to be true and the availability of counseling and other intervention services. 
      4. Notify within five (5) days following the completion of the investigation the parent, legal guardian, person having lawful control of the student, or person acting in loco parentis of the student who is alleged to have been the perpetrator of the incident of bullying: 
      1. That a credible report or complaint of bullying against their student exists; 
      2. Whether the investigation found the credible report or complaint of bullying to be true; 
      3. Whether action was taken against their student upon the conclusion of the investigation of the alleged incident of bullying; and 
      4. Information regarding the reporting of another alleged incident of bullying, including potential consequences of continued incidents of bullying; 
      5. Make a written record of the investigation, which shall include: 
      1. A detailed description of the alleged incident of bullying, including without limitation a detailed summary of the statements from all material witnesses to the alleged incident of bullying; 
      2. Any action taken as a result of the investigation; and 
      6. Discuss, as appropriate, the availability of counseling and other intervention services with students involved in the incident of bullying. 
Students found to be in violation of this policy shall be subject to disciplinary action up to and including expulsion. In determining the appropriate disciplinary action, consideration may be given to other violations of the student handbook which may have simultaneously occurred. In addition to any disciplinary actions, the District shall take appropriate steps to remedy the effects resulting from bullying. 


Notice of what constitutes bullying, the District’s prohibition against bullying, and the consequences for students who bully shall be conspicuously posted in every classroom, cafeteria, restroom, gymnasium, auditorium, and school bus. Parents, legal guardians, person having lawful control of a student, persons standing in loco parentis, students, school volunteers, and employees shall be given copies of the notice annually. 


The superintendent shall make a report annually to the Board of Directors on student discipline data, which shall include, without limitation, the number of incidents of bullying reported and the actions taken regarding the reported incidents of bullying. 


To prevent multiple, simultaneous investigations into the same alleged conduct, if the facts that support an alleged incident of bullying may also constitute a violation of another District policy; State or Federal law; State rule; or Federal regulation, then the District shall investigate and dispose of the alleged incident of bullying in accordance with the other applicable District policy; State or Federal law; State rule; or federal regulation in lieu of the requirements of this policy. 


Copies of this policy shall be available upon request.
Notes:    DESE has created a guidance document on bullying that could be useful in developing staff and student training on bullying. The document can be found at https://dese.ade.arkansas.gov/Offices/District-Operations/school-safety/bullying-and-violence-prevention. 


Different consequences are permitted depending on the age or grade of the bullying student.  
 
Last Revised: July 2026


Minimum- Conference/Warning/Parent Notification
Maximum- Recommendation for expulsion




RULE 18 CHEATING


A student shall not cheat on tests, homework, or projects, or aid other students in cheating. Plagiarism is also cheating.


Minimum- Conference/Warning/Parent Notification by Teacher
Maximum- Suspension


RULE 19 THEFTS AND EXTORTION


A student shall not cause or attempt to cause damage or steal or attempt to steal property of another student or any other person, nor shall a student obtain or attempt to obtain something from another person by either physical force or threat.


Minimum- Conference/Warning/Parent Notification
Maximum- Recommendation for expulsion


RULE 20 DISORDERLY CONDUCT


A student shall not engage in behavior, which produces situations in which instruction or activities of other students are adversely affected.


Minimum- Conference/Warning/Parent Notification
Maximum- Recommendation for expulsion


RULE 21 VERBAL OR WRITTEN ABUSE TO SCHOOL EMPLOYEE


A student shall not commit verbal or written abuse to a school employee in accordance with (Arkansas Law 6-17-106 and Act 1565 of 2001).


Minimum- Conference/Warning/Parent Notification
Maximum- Recommendation for expulsion




RULE 22 DISRESPECT TO SCHOOL EMPLOYEES


A student shall not behave in a disrespectful manner to any school employee via behavior, speech, gestures, etc.


Minimum- Conference/Warning/Parent Notification
Maximum- Recommendation for expulsion


RULE 23 BOMB THREATS


A student who calls in a bomb threat and/or other threat to the health and safety of students and employees will be referred to the legal authorities and will be recommended for expulsion. (Act 567 of 2001)


RULE 24 PERSISTENT DISREGARD FOR SCHOOL RULES


A student who persists in acts of misconduct after the school has made and documented continued efforts to secure his/her adherence to established rules will be recommended for expulsion. Efforts toward behavior modification will be made prior to recommendation of expulsion except when the student has committed an offense so serious in nature that immediate expulsion is necessary.










RULE 25 DANGEROUS/DISRUPTIVE INSTRUMENTS AND DEVICES


A student is prohibited from possessing any instrument or device that can pose a danger to other students, faculty, or school property or disrupt the school day.  These items include, but are not limited to, fire starters(matches and lighters), laser pointers, pepper spray, or any other device that can disrupt the school day.


    Students shall not possess any hand held laser pointer while in school; on or about school property, before or after    
    school; in attendance at school or any school-sponsored activity; on route to or from school or any school-sponsored  
    activity; off the school grounds at any school bus stop or at any school-sponsored activity or event. School personnel   
    shall seize any laser pointer from the student possessing it and the student may reclaim it at the close of the school year,  
    or when the student is no longer enrolled in the District.


Minimum- Conference/Warning/Parent Notification
Maximum- Recommendation for expulsion


RULE 26 RACIAL/ETHNIC/RELIGIOUS/GENDER HARASSMENT


A student who makes a verbal and/or written derogatory statement based on a student’s race, ethnicity, gender, or religious beliefs shall be subject to the following disciplinary action:


Minimum: Parent Notification/Conference/Warning
Maximum: Recommendation for expulsion 


RULE 27  BEHAVIOR NOT COVERED ABOVE


Brookland School District reserves the right to pursue disciplinary or legal action for behavior which is subversive to good order and discipline in the school even though such behavior is not specified in the preceding written rules.


ADMINISTRATORS MAY ALTER THE SEVERITY OF PUNISHMENT BASED ON CIRCUMSTANCES AND OTHER CONDITIONS.  CONTINUAL VIOLATION OF ANY SCHOOL RULES WILL RESULT IN PROGRESSIVELY MORE SEVERE PUNISHMENT.  ONE WARNING WILL BE GIVEN (IF APPROPRIATE) AND OTHER PUNISHMENTS WILL FOLLOW WHEN DIFFERENT RULES ARE BROKEN.
        
DISCIPLINE OF HANDICAPPED STUDENTS


The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (P.L. 94-142, amended) provides students with disabilities special due process rights with regard to disciplinary procedures.  All Brookland School students, regardless of handicapping condition, who engage in misbehavior, are subject to normal school disciplinary rules and procedures so long as such treatment does not abridge the right to free, appropriate public education and as long as the handicapping condition is not the reason for the disciplinary action.


Special education students will be excluded from school only in emergencies and only for the duration of the emergency.  In no case will a special education student be excluded for more than ten days in any school year, unless alternative educational programming is made available.


DUE PROCESS


Every student is entitled to due process and has the right to be immediately informed of alleged violations of standards of behavior as established by board policy and/or school regulations.  When disciplinary actions may result in the suspension or expulsion of a student, parents or guardians will be notified.


The principal of any school, or his/her designee, may suspend any student from school for a period not to exceed ten (10) days. The 14th Amendment of the Constitution of the United States assures individuals the protection of due process.


The proper procedure for students/parents to resolve a grievance will be:


      1. Teacher
      2. Principal
      3. Superintendent
      4. Board of Education


This system of due process is approved with regard to the administration of discipline at Brookland School District. (Ark Law 6-18-514)


PLAYGROUND RULES


Primary/Elementary/Intermediate/Middle School Only:
Playground duty teachers will make the decision when the playground is too wet or muddy for the students to be outside.  The office must be notified 5 minutes before time for students to be on the playground so the decision may be announced on the intercom.  Each teacher is responsible for informing students of their play area. Students should have wide access to the playground equipment and supplies provided by the school. It is important for them to learn to cooperate in the use of playground equipment as it is within the classroom. They are to be instructed and monitored in the proper use of the playground equipment.  Playground regulations, which govern the behavior of the students while they are on the playground, are as follows:


GENERAL
No throwing mulch/rocks or digging holes in the mulch.
No putting mulch/rocks on playground equipment.
Children should not bring toys to the playground
Children should not climb on top of rails or the roofs of the equipment.
Basketballs stay on the basketball courts and are not allowed to be used as kickballs.
Rock wall is for 1st and 2nd grades only.
No jumping off of ladders.


TIC TAC TOE EQUIPMENT
Do not sit on top of the Tic-Tac-Toe Equipment.


TEETER TOTTER
Only 2 people at a time on Teeter Totter.
No getting in the middle on the Teeter Totter.
Please stand on the teeter totter—do not sit.


SPINNERS
One person at a time on the spinners.
Children must take turns on the spinners.
Children are not allowed to spin each other.




SLIDES
Slide one at a time.
Slide in a seated position with feet in front.
No sliding on the belly, back or head first.
No running down the slide or climbing up the slide
No jumping off the sides of the slide.


SWINGS
Children should swing front to back.
No swinging sideways.
No jumping out of the swings.
No twisting chains in the swings.
Sit on your bottom to swing, not on your stomach.
Students are not allowed to push each other on the swings.


INDOOR RECESS
When the wind chill is 32 degrees or below, or when it is raining, recess will be in the classrooms. 
GYM RULES
No running or skipping.
No tumbling.
Stay off the bleachers.
Stay out from behind the bleachers.
Keep your hands to yourself.


4.23—TOBACCO, ELECTRONIC NICOTINE DELIVERY SYSTEMS, AND  RELATED PRODUCTS
Smoking or use of tobacco or products containing tobacco in any form (including, but not limited to, cigarettes, cigars, chewing tobacco, and snuff) in or on any real property owned or leased by a District school, including school buses owned or leased by the District, is prohibited. Students who violate this policy may be subject to legal proceedings in addition to student disciplinary measures.


With the exception of recognized tobacco cessation products, this policy’s prohibition includes any tobacco or nicotine delivery system or product. Specifically, the prohibition includes any product that is manufactured, distributed, marketed, or sold as e-cigarettes, e-cigars, e-pips, or under any other name or descriptor.


Legal Reference:        A.C.A. § 6-21-609


4.24—DRUGS AND ALCOHOL
 
An orderly and safe school environment that is conducive to promoting student achievement requires a student population free from the deleterious effects of alcohol and drugs. Their use is illegal, disruptive to the educational environment, and diminishes the capacity of students to learn and function properly in our schools. 


Therefore, no student in the Brookland School District shall possess, attempt to possess, consume, use, distribute, sell, buy, attempt to sell, attempt to buy, give to any person, or be under the influence of any substance as defined in this policy, or what the student represents or believes to be any substance as defined in this policy. 


This policy applies to any student who: 
      * Is on or about school property; 
      * Is in attendance at school or any school sponsored activity; 
      * Has left the school campus for any reason and returns to the campus; or 
      * Is on route to or from school or any school sponsored activity. 
Prohibited substances shall include, but are not limited to: 
      * Alcohol, or any alcoholic beverage; 
      * Inhalants or any ingestible matter that alter a student’s ability to act, think, or respond; 
      * LSD or any other hallucinogen; 
      * Marijuana;
      * Cocaine, heroin, or any other narcotic drug; 
      * PCP; 
      * Amphetamines; 
      * Steroids; 
      * “Designer drugs”; 
      * Look-alike drugs; or 
      * Any controlled substance. 
The sale, distribution, or attempted sale or distribution of over-the-counter (OTC) medications, dietary supplement or other perceived health remedy not regulated by the US Food and Drug Administration, or prescription drugs is prohibited. The possession or use of OTC medications, dietary supplement or other perceived health remedy not regulated by the US Food and Drug Administration, or prescription drugs is prohibited except as permitted under Policy 4.35—STUDENT MEDICATIONS. 


Note:    The possession or use of marijuana on school campus is prohibited even if a student has a medical marijuana patient card. The Arkansas Constitution Amendment 98 § 6 states: 
      1. This amendment does not permit a person to: 
. . . 
Possess, smoke, or otherwise engage in the medical use of marijuana: 
​​​​​​​On a school bus; 
         1. On the grounds of a daycare center, preschool, primary or secondary school, college, or university; 
In general, Amendment 98 requires that a student with a patient card have any positive drug test be treated as if marijuana were any other prescription drug. Amendment 98 requires the student be actively impaired before the district can take any action, which is restricted as follows: 
​​​​​​​
            2. This amendment does not require: 
. . . 
​​​​​​​A public school to permit a qualifying patient who is a student to be present on school grounds, to attend a school event, or to participate in extracurricular activities in violation of the public school's student discipline policies when a school office has a good faith belief that the behavior of the qualifying patient is impaired. 


 
Last Revised: July 2026
BROOKLAND PUBLIC SCHOOLS
CHEMICAL SCREEN TEST POLICY


The Brookland School District recognizes that chemical abuse or misuse is a significant health problem for students, detrimentally affecting overall health, behavior, learning ability, reflexes, and the total development of each individual.  The Brookland Board of Education is determined to help students by providing another option for them to say “NO”.  Chemical abuse includes, but is not limited to, the use of illegal drugs, and the misuse of the legal drugs and medications.


PURPOSE OF A CHEMICAL ABUSE POLICY


1.        To allow the students of Brookland Public Schools to know that the school is concerned about their total well-being.  
2.        The school district is interested in helping the students who may be having problems.
3.        To emphasize concerns for the health of students in areas of safety while they are participating in activities, as well as the long-term physical and emotional effects of chemical use on their health.  
4.        To confirm and support state laws which restrict the use of such mood-altering chemicals.
5.        To assist students of Brookland Schools to resist the peer pressure that directs them toward the abuse or misuse of chemical substances.
6.        To establish standards of conduct for students of Brookland Schools who are considered leaders and standard bearers among their peers.
7.        To work cooperatively with the parents by assisting them in keeping their children free from mood-altering chemicals.
8.        To provide referrals for students who need evaluation regarding their use of mood-altering chemicals.
9.        To deter chemical abuse or misuse by all students through the use of random drug testing.


SCOPE


The provisions of this policy apply to all students in Brookland Public Schools in grades seven through twelve whose parent/guardian signs Consent Form “A” of the Chemical Screen Test Policy.


GENERAL PROVISIONS


ILLEGAL DRUGS are defined as drugs, or the synthetic or generic equivalent or derivative of drugs, which are illegal under federal, state, or local laws including, but not limited to, marijuana, heroin, hashish, cocaine, hallucinogens, depressants, and stimulants not prescribed for the user.  Illegal drugs include steroids and its derivatives or related substances, which are not prescribed by a physician or are prescribed by a physician for use not authorized by the manufacturer of the drug.
ALCOHOL is defined as ethyl alcohol or any beverage containing ethyl alcohol.
                                 
REASONABLE SUSPICION PROVISIONS


The use or possession of illegal drugs or alcohol by a student on property under the control of the district or prior to entering property controlled by the district or at a district-sponsored event where the illegal drug or alcohol has the possibility of impairing the student is a violation of this policy.  The presence of an illegal drug or its metabolites or alcohol in a student’s body is considered possession.


REASONABLE SUSPICION is defined as a reasonable suspicion by an administrator or other district employee that a subject has used, possessed, or sold illegal drugs on district property or has used illegal drugs off district property, but is on district property or at a district-sponsored event while under the influence of alcohol; or that a student is abusing or misusing prescription medications on district property or at a district-sponsored event while under the influence of the prescribed medication.  Examples of reasonable suspicion include, but are not limited to: eyewitness evidence by a district official, administrator, or employee, or eyewitness evidence of another person plus additional evidence.  Individualized suspicion possessed by an employee of the district that is based upon a reasonable suspicion and/or reasonably reliable evidence.


RANDOM TESTING PROVISIONS


The use or possession of illegal drugs during school activities or prior to school activities where the illegal drug has the possibility of impairing the participant is a violation of this policy.  The presence of an illegal drug and its metabolites in a student’s body is considered possession.


Any student undergoing medical treatment prescribed by a physician that includes the use of any drug or medication capable of affecting the student’s mental or physical capabilities must notify the appropriate school official at the time of testing.  If there is any doubt concerning the effects of the drug or medication, the appropriate school official should be notified.  A student’s failure to notify the appropriate school official that the student is undergoing medical treatment that includes the use of any drug or medication capable of affecting the student’s mental and physical abilities is a violation of this policy. The penalty for this violation may be the same as an initial positive test result under the random testing provisions.


TYPE OF TESTING  


The district may require each student of Brookland Public Schools in grades seven through twelve to provide a urine specimen.  Each specimen cup will have a number on it which will be assigned to a participant’s name.  The numbers that are selected through a random process will be sent to the lab for testing.  Urinalysis will be the method utilized to test for the presence of chemicals in the body.  All students selected must show up for providing urine samples to be taken at Brookland Public Schools or must go to a pre-designated doctor’s office and give a urine specimen.


SELECTION PROCESS


While students are in school, they will be subject to random selection for testing.  Each student will be assigned a number, or he/she may use their social security number.  Particular days will be selected for testing.  The amount of numbers drawn will be no less than two and not more than twelve.  If any student whose number is drawn is absent on that day, the selection process will continue until the number of students reaches the pre-selected number for random testing.


REFUSAL TO SUBMIT TO TESTING


Students not consenting to be tested (in the random pool) are allowed to join clubs or organizations, but are not allowed to attend after school meetings or participate in off-campus trips.  Any participant who refuses to submit to random drug testing shall not be allowed to participate in any school activity for the remainder of the school year.  Examples include but are not limited to: sports, class trips, field trips, dances, homecoming royalty, band, choir, FFA, FHA, quiz bowl, prom committees, prom activities, cheerleading, FBLA, Spanish Club, Student Council, Science Club, and Annual Staff.


USE OF POSITIVE TEST RESULTS


Upon receipt of a positive test result for any student, a student may request a retest at his/her expense within a 24-hour period of a positive result.  The specimen must be given at a pre-designated doctor’s office.


The Superintendent or designee shall notify the student and the student’s custodial parents/legal guardian.  The Superintendent or designee shall schedule a conference with the student’s custodial parents/legal guardians to explain the results.  Counseling/rehabilitation for the student will be strongly recommended for the student who tests positive.  This will be at the expense of the student.  The student will be placed on probation for twenty one days.  After twenty one days, the student will be tested again at the student’s own expense and a written copy of the results will be given to the superintendent or designee.  If the test is negative, the probation will be lifted.  If the test is positive, the student will not be allowed to continue in school activities for one calendar year.  The student cannot participate in any form of extra-curricular activity involving Brookland Public School.  To regain eligibility for participation in activities for the next year, a student must have a negative Chemical Screening Test.  This must be administered by the pre-designated doctor at the student’s expense. If the test is positive, the student will be subject to up to three drug screenings per year until the student graduates. EXCEPTION: Certain chemicals that take more than twenty days to leave the student’s system will be considered differently if a doctor’s written opinion details said residual effects of that particular substance.


TESTING PROCEDURE


ANALYSIS OF URINE SPECIMENS.  The initial urinalysis method shall be an immunoassay screen.  If a specimen tests positive for any substance being checked, a student may request a confirmation test within 24 hours of receiving the positive results.  The confirmation test will be at the student’s expense at the office of a pre-designated physician.  Gas chromatography/mass spectrometry GC/MS shall be conducted on the specimen.  The student will be allowed to retest at the end of the 20-day probation period at his/her expense.  If the result of the GC/MS test is positive, the student shall be considered to have had a positive result.  If the GC/MS is negative for the suspected substance or substances, the student shall be considered to have had a negative result.


All test results from the laboratory shall be communicated to the superintendent or designee.  To ensure proper testing procedures, United States Department of Health and Human Services Standards as defined by the National Institute of Drug Abuse certified laboratories will be followed.


All urine specimens will be taken at a designated restroom.  Any student who is requested to provide a urine specimen shall be directed to the collection site where the student will complete the necessary forms.  Students selected as a part of the random test will be required to execute an additional consent form.  The following precautions will be taken, as appropriate, at the collection site:
1.  Positively identify the examinee.
        2. The observer shall ask the individual to remove any unnecessary outer garments (i.e. coat, jacket) that might conceal items or substances that could be used to tamper with or adulterate the urine specimen.  All personal belongings (i.e. purse, briefcase, etc.) must remain with the outer garments.  The observer shall note any unusual behavior or appearance.
        3.         The student shall be instructed to wash and dry his/her hands prior to providing the specimen.  After washing his/her hands, the student shall not be outside of the presence of the observer and not have access to water fountains, faucets, soap dispensers, or cleaning agents until after the specimen has been provided and sealed.  Only one person will be allowed at a time in the washroom and process area.
          4. The student will be allowed to provide the specimen in a stall or other partitioned area that allows for individual privacy.  After the specimen has been provided, the student should leave the stall.
        5.         At the collection site, toilet bluing agents shall be placed in the toilet tanks whenever possible.  No other source of water shall be available in the enclosure where urination occurs.
        6. After the specimen has been provided to the observer, the observer will continue with chain of custody procedures and determine whether it contains at least 60 milliliters of urine.  If there is not at least 60 milliliters, additional urine should be collected.  The student may be given reasonable amounts of water for drinking.  If a student fails for any reason to provide the necessary amount of specimen, the observer shall contact the superintendent or designee for guidance.
        7.         Immediately after collection the observer shall check the temperature of the specimen and inspect the specimen for color and signs of contaminants.  Freshly filled specimens should be warm.
        8. Both the observer and the student being tested shall keep the specimen in view at all times prior to its being sealed and labeled.
         9. The student shall observe the tamper-proof seal.  The labels for the specimen bottle must have all information completed before being placed over the bottle cap and down the sides of the bottle.  The observer will place the identification label securely on the bottle.
        10. The student and the observer will sign the chain of custody form, and have the observer initial the specimen label. 
        11. The identification label on the specimen container shall contain the date, the student’s name, and the student’s assigned number.
        12. The observer shall enter the identifying information in a record book.  Both the observer and the student shall sign the record book.  Both the observer and the student shall sign the permanent record book next to the identifying information.
        13. The student shall be asked to read and sign a certification statement regarding the urine specimen.


RESULTS AND NOTIFICATION


Test results shall be reported to the superintendent or his designee within a specified number of days after the lab’s receipt of the specimens.  All reports shall be in writing.  All specimens testing negative on the initial test or negative on the confirmation test shall be reported as negative.  Only specimens confirmed as positive shall be reported as positive for a specific drug(s).


CONSENT FORM


Students and parents/guardians will be strongly encouraged to sign a consent form to the random testing at various times of the year.  The form must be co-signed by the student’s custodial parent/guardian.  No student shall be allowed to participate in any school activity (any activity outside the regular curriculum) until the consent form has been signed by both student and custodial parent/legal guardian and returned to the principal.  
SUBSTANCES TESTED


The substances for which a student will be tested include, but are not limited to:
BARBITURATES              AMPHETAMINES 
BENZODIAZEPINES        AMOBARBITAL
CHLORDIAZEPOXIDE     
BUTALBITAL
CLORAZEPATE                PENTOBARBITAL
DIAZEPAM        PHENOBARBITAL
HALAZEPAM        SECOBARBITAL
PRAZEPAM         
TRIZOLAM
COCAINE METABOLITES        PROPOXYPHENES
  PHENCYCLIDINE (PCP)        QUALITATIVE THC
  OPIATES        
ETHYL ALCOHOL
  CODEINE        


The cut off levels for initial screens shall be 100 nanograms per milliliter (ng/ml) for marijuana metabolites (THC), 300ng/ml for cocaine metabolites and opiates, 25ng/ml for phencyclidine, and 1000 ng/ml for amphetamines.  The cut off level for ethyl alcohol shall be four one-hundredths of one percent (.04%) by weight of alcohol in the student’s breath or blood.  Cut off levels used are determined by the National Institute on Drug Abuse.  The cut off levels for confirmation tests shall be 15 ng/ml for marijuana metabolites, 150 ng/ml for cocaine metabolites, 300 ng/ml for opiates, 500 ng/ml for amphetamines, and 25 ng/ml for phencyclidines.


COST


The test to be given during random selection will be paid by the Brookland School District.  Any second test or test requested by the parent or student will be at the parent’s own expense.                                 


RECORDS


All records concerning chemical abuse testing shall be maintained by the superintendent or designee in a separate file under lock and key.  The records shall not be kept in a student’s regular file.  Only the superintendent or his designee shall have access to the files.  The files on each student shall be destroyed upon graduation or upon graduation or two years after termination of enrollment.  A student and the student’s custodial parents/legal guardians may obtain a copy of their chemical abuse testing records upon written request.


GRIEVANCES


The procedure for appealing is found in the Brookland Public Schools Student/Parent Handbook.


All Consent and Screen Testing  Forms are available in the school office.


4.25—STUDENT DRESS AND GROOMING


The Brookland Board of Education recognizes that dress can be a matter of personal taste and preference.  At the same time, the District has a responsibility to promote an environment conducive to student learning. This requires limitations to student dress and grooming that could be disruptive to the educational process because they are immodest, disruptive, unsanitary, unsafe, could cause property damage, or are offensive to common standards of decency.


Students are prohibited from wearing, while on the school grounds during the school day and at school-sponsored events, clothing that exposes underwear, buttocks, or the breast of a female. This prohibition does not apply, however, to a costume or uniform worn by a student while participating in a school-sponsored activity or event.


A student shall not be disciplined or discriminated against based upon the student's natural, protective, or cultural hairstyle. A student’s natural, protective, or cultural hairstyle includes without limitation afros, dreadlocks, twists, locs, braids, cornrow braids, Bantu knots, curls, and hair styled to protect hair texture or for cultural significance.


The Superintendent shall establish student dress codes for the District’s schools, to be included in the student handbook, and are consistent with the above criteria.




Among those rights retained by the people under our constitutional form of government is the freedom to govern one's personal appearance.  When, however, dress or grooming interrupts or disrupts the learning process for the individual student, other students, or the school learning climate, it becomes a matter subject to disciplinary action. Student dress, grooming, and appearance should be the responsibility of the individual and his/her parents under the following guidelines:


               * Dress and grooming should be clean and in keeping with health and sanitary practices.
               * Students may not wear clothing or hairstyles that can be hazardous to them in their educational activities such as shop, lab work, physical education, etc.
               * Dress and grooming should not interrupt or disrupt the educational process.
               * A student shall not wear or use emblems, insignias, badges, or other symbols which cause interruption, disruption, and interference with the operation of the school.
               * No student shall wear clothing that advertises, promotes, or symbolizes drugs, alcohol, or tobacco in any form.
               * Profane, suggestive, vulgar, or obscene language or reference to this type of language displayed on any clothing will not be allowed.
               * Students shall not wear clothing which promotes violence of any kind.
               * Students will not be permitted to wear transparent clothing, mesh shirts, half shirts, muscle shirts, halters, strapless blouses, spaghetti straps, low cut revealing blouses, unbuttoned shirts, unfastened pants, sagging pants, clothing that displays bare midriffs, mini-skirts, spandex shorts, or unbuckled belts.
               * K-12th grade students’ shorts, skirts, and dresses must be appropriate length.
               * Students will not be allowed to wear caps, hats, or other head dressing during school hours, or at school sponsored activities.
               * Dress code will be in effect during regular school hours and during all hours of extracurricular activities.
               * Exception:  Students may be allowed to wear caps at certain school activities such as ball games
               * No pants with holes above the knees.
               * Students are prohibited from wearing, while on the school grounds during the school day and at school-sponsored events, clothing that exposes underwear, buttocks, or the breast of a female.  
               * Due to playground and outdoor activities, flip flops are not recommended in grades K-2.
               * The principal or designee will have the authority to determine if clothing is appropriate for school wear. Some exceptions may be made for costumes and/or uniforms worn by a student while participating in a school-sponsored activity or event.




Students who violate the dress code will face disciplinary action.


Minimum: Conference/Warning
Maximim: OSS


All parents and volunteers attending school parties, field trips, volunteering, etc. must adhere to the student dress code above while on campus or interacting with students.


Revised: 6/5/23


4.26—GANGS AND GANG ACTIVITY


The Board is committed to ensuring a safe school environment conducive to promoting a learning environment where students and staff can excel. An orderly environment cannot exist where unlawful acts occur causing fear, intimidation, or physical harm to students or school staff. Gangs and their activities create such an atmosphere and shall not be allowed on school grounds or at school functions.
The following actions are prohibited by students on school property or at school functions:
               1. Wearing or possessing any clothing, bandanas, jewelry, symbol, or other sign associated with membership in, or representative of, any gang;
               2. Engaging in any verbal or nonverbal act such as throwing signs, gestures, or handshakes representative of membership in any gang;
               3. Recruiting, soliciting, or encouraging any person through duress or intimidation to become or remain a member of any gang; and/or
               4. Extorting payment from any individual in return for protection from harm from any gang.
               5. Students found to be in violation of this policy shall be subject to disciplinary action up to and including expulsion.


Students arrested for gang related activities occurring off school grounds shall be subject to the same disciplinary actions as if they had occurred on school grounds.


Legal References:        A.C.A. § 6-15-1005(b)(2),A.C.A. § 5-74-201




4.29— INTERNET SAFETY AND ELECTRONIC DEVICE USE POLICY


BROOKLAND SCHOOL DISTRICT TECHNOLOGY POLICY


The Brookland School District participates in a 1:1 initiative. All students in grades 7-12 will be issued a school-owned device. All parents/guardians and students will be required to read and abide by the rules set forth in the technology handbook. A device use permission form with parent/guardian and student signatures will be required before taking possession of a school-owned device. Students in grades K-6 will have access to electronic devices and the internet while at school.




Students will comply at all times with the Brookland School District Technology Handbook and Acceptable Use Policy, incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof for all purposes. Any failure to comply may terminate your rights of possession immediately and the District may repossess the property.


K-12 Technology Guidelines and Policies:
To be followed in all schools contained in the Brookland Public School district


K-12 Educational Purposes Only:
The school district is providing access to its networks and the Internet for educational purposes only. If the user has any doubt about whether a contemplated activity is educational, the user may consult with the person(s) designated by the school to help decide if a use is appropriate.
K-12 Unacceptable Uses of Network:
Among the uses that are considered unacceptable and which constitute a violation of this policy include but are not limited to the following:
Uses that violate the law or encourage others to violate the law. Do not transmit offensive or harassing messages; offer for sale or use any substance the possession or use of which is prohibited by the school district’s student discipline policy; view, transmit or download pornographic materials or materials that encourage others to violate the law; intrude into the networks or notebook of others; and download or transmit confidential, trade secret information, or copyrighted materials. The user should assume that all materials are protected unless there is explicit, written permission on the materials to use them. Presence of weapons, pornographic materials, inappropriate language, alcohol, drug, and gang related symbols or pictures will result in disciplinary actions which may include loss of technology privileges.
Uses that cause harm to others or damage to their property. For example, do not engage in defamation (harming another's reputation); employ another’s password or some other user identifier that misleads message recipients into believing that someone other than the user is communicating or otherwise using his/her access to the network or the Internet; upload a worm, virus, or other harmful form of programming or vandalism; participate in hacking‖ activities or any form of unauthorized access to other devices, networks, or information systems.
Uses that jeopardize the security of student and staff access and of the device network or other networks on the Internet. For example, do not disclose or share your password with others; do not impersonate another user. Do not delete any folders or files that you did not create or that you do not recognize. Deletion of certain files will result in a device failure and will interfere with your ability to complete class work and may affect your grades.
Uses that are commercial transactions. Students, staff, and other users may not sell or buy anything over the Internet. The user should not give others private information about the user or others, including credit card numbers and social security numbers.
Uses for non-educational purposes. Do not use for gaming, social media, or any other non- educational purposes.


Cyber Bullying (K-12):
Cyberbullying is when one or more people intentionally harm, harass, embarrass, intimidate, or reject another person using technology. This includes but is not limited to the following:
•        Sending mean or threatening messages via social media, email, IM (instant messaging), or text messages.
•        Spreading rumors about others through social media, email, IM, or text messages.
•        Creating a website or social-networking account that targets another student or other person(s).
•        Sharing fake or embarrassing photos/videos of someone with others via a cell phone or the web.
•        Stealing another person’s login and password to send mean or embarrassing messages from his or her account.


It shall be the policy of Brookland Public Schools that cyber bullying will not be tolerated under any circumstances. A student caught violating this policy will lose device privileges and these actions may result in further disciplinary action including suspension or expulsion from school. In addition, violators and their parents/guardians may be subject to civil and/or criminal penalties as specified by Arkansas and/or federal law.


Conditional Privilege: The Student’s use of the district’s access to the Internet is a privilege conditioned on the Student’s abiding to this agreement. No student may use the district’s access to the Internet whether through a District or student owned electronic device unless the Student and his/her parent or guardian have read and signed this agreement.


K-12 Responsible Usage Policy 
Students must:
•        Respect and protect their own privacy and the privacy of others.
o        Use only your assigned accounts.
o        Keep personal information such as: name, address, phone number, etc., offline.
o        Keep passwords secret.
o        Have permission to photograph, videotape and post images or videos of people to the Internet.
•        Respect and protect the integrity, availability, and security of all electronic resources.
o        Observe all network security practices.
o        Conserve, protect, and share these resources with other students and Internet users.
•                Respect and protect the copyrighted/intellectual property of others.
o        Cite all sources appropriately.
o        Follow all copyright laws.
o        Use electronic communication devices appropriately to assure academic integrity.
•        Respect and practice the principles of community.
o        Communicate only in ways that are kind, responsible, respectful and lawful.
o        Use electronic communication devices for schoolwork only.
o        Brookland District email should be used for schoolwork only.
o        Report threatening or offensive materials to a teacher or administrator.
•        Respect the privacy of the others. 
o        The student may not use the devices to record, transmit, or post photos or videos of a person on campus without the express permission of a teacher. 
•        Respect school owned equipment
o        Students and their cosigners shall be liable for any and all costs (debts) incurred through the student’s use of the computers or access to the Internet including penalties for copyright violations. 


Acceptable Use: The Student agrees that he/she will use the District’s Internet access for educational purposes only.  In using the Internet, the Student agrees to obey all federal and state laws and regulations. The Student also agrees to abide by any Internet use rules instituted at the Student’s school or class, whether those rules are written or oral


E-mail Usage (K-12)
•        The primary purpose of the student electronic mail system is for students to communicate with school staff and fellow students to collaborate on school activities. With permission, outside resources related to school assignments may be contacted.
•        Students are responsible for good behavior while using school e-mail, just as they are in a classroom or a school hallway.
•        Access to e-mail is given to students who agree to act in a considerate and responsible manner. Access is a privilege – not a right. Access entails responsibility.
•        Students are responsible for messages sent from their accounts.
•        Students should not share their passwords.
•        Students should not give out personal information over email, including home telephone numbers or home addresses.
•        Students will not use email to bully, harass, or threaten other students or individuals
•        Students will report any unusual activities such as "spam" communications, obscene email, attempts by adults to lure them into dangerous behaviors to the school's technology specialist.
•        Students will not use email to send chain letters, viruses, or hoaxes to other students or staff.
•        Email accounts are filtered and messages written containing inappropriate language or content will be flagged.
•        Student email is provided by the district and is district property. Brookland School District reserves the right to archive, monitor and/or review all use of its email system, and users should not have any expectation of privacy in any electronic message created, sent or received on the District’s email system.
•        Student email accounts will be removed from the system after graduation, leaving the school district, or as a result of disciplinary actions. If necessary, Brookland School District, at its discretion, may close the accounts at any time.
Internet Safety (K-12)
In order for the school district to ensure the continued accessibility of its device network and the internet, all students and staff must take responsibility for appropriate and lawful use of this access.


There are many sites on the internet that can be potentially dangerous to minors. These sites are blocked with the District content filter while students are logged on to the District network, but may be unprotected outside of school. Students are in violation of district policy if they access these sites through other means. While the school’s teachers and other staff will make reasonable efforts to supervise student use of network and internet access, they must have student cooperation in exercising and promoting acceptable use of technology. Parents should monitor student home internet access. To find more information about internet safety, go to www.isafe.org. 


No Expectation of Privacy (K-12)
Network and internet access is provided as a tool for the user’s education. The school district reserves the right to monitor, inspect, copy, review, and store at any time and without prior notice any and all usage of the device network and internet access and any and all information transmitted or received in connection with such usage. All such information files shall be and remain the property of the school district and no user shall have any expectation of privacy regarding such materials.


Warranties/Indemnification (K-12)
The school district makes no warranties of any kind, either express or implied, in connection with its provision of access to and use of its networks and the internet provided under this policy. It shall not be responsible for any claims, losses, damages, or costs (including attorney's fees) of any kind suffered, directly or indirectly, by any user (or his or her parents or guardian) arising out of the user’s use of its network or the internet under this policy. By signing this handbook, users are taking full responsibility for their own use, and the user who is 18 or older or the parent(s) or guardian(s) of a minor student are agreeing to indemnify and hold the school, the school district, and all of their administrators, teachers, and staff harmless from any and all loss, costs, claims, or damages resulting from the user’s access to its network and the internet, including but not limited to any fees or charges incurred through purchases of goods or services by the user. The user or the parent(s) or guardian(s) of a minor student agree to cooperate with the school in the event of the school’s initiating an investigation of a user’s use of his or her access to its device and the internet, whether that use is on a school network or on another computer outside the school district's network.


 Updates (K-12)
Users, and if appropriate, their parents/guardians, may be asked from time to time to provide new or additional registration and account information or to sign a new policy reflecting developments in the law or technology or changes in district policy. Such information must be provided by the user (or his/her parents or guardian) or such new policy must be signed if the user wishes to continue to
receive service. If after account information is provided, some or all of the information changes, the user must notify the person designated by the school to receive such information.


 INTERNET FILTERING REGULATION (K-12)
Brookland Schools utilizes internet filtering techniques and protective hardware for internet
filtering and internet usage reporting while the student is at school. However, please keep in mind the internet changes rapidly, making it impossible to filter all objectionable sites. Therefore, the staff role in supervising and monitoring student access to the internet is critical. Additionally, staff members have the responsibility to monitor their own navigation on the internet to avoid undesirable sites.


Filtering should be viewed as only one of a number of techniques used to manage student access to the internet and encourage acceptable usage. Filtering should not be viewed as a foolproof approach to preventing access to inappropriate material and should be used in conjunction with:
•        Educating students to be "Internet smart;"
•        Using recognized internet gateways as a searching tool and/or homepage for students, in order to facilitate access to appropriate material;
•        Using "Acceptable Use Agreements;"
•        Using behavior management practices for which internet access privileges can be earned or lost; and
•        Appropriate supervision, either in person and/or electronically.


The placement of filters on district devices is viewed as an exercise of the board's ability to determine educational suitability of all material used in the schools.
Filters may be utilized with district schools to (1) block pre-selected sites, (2) block by word, (3) block entire categories like chat and newsgroups, and (4) through a pre-selected list of approved sites.


The District will make good faith efforts to protect children from improper or harmful matter which may be on the Internet. At the same time, in signing this agreement, the parent and Student recognize that the District makes no guarantees about preventing improper access to such materials on the part of the Student.


Failure to Follow Policy (K-12)
The user’s use of the school network and internet is a privilege, not a right. A user who violates this policy may have his or her access to the network and internet terminated. A user violates this policy by their action or by failing to report any violations by other users that come to the attention of the user.
Further, a user violates this policy if he or she permits another to use his or her account or password to access the device network and internet, including any user whose access has been denied or terminated. The school district may also take other disciplinary action in such circumstances.


 “Misuse of the District’s access to the Internet” includes, but is not limited to, the following:
•        using the Internet for other than educational purposes;
•        gaining intentional access or maintaining access to materials which are “harmful to minors” as defined by Arkansas law;
•        using the Internet for any illegal activity, including computer hacking and copyright or intellectual property law violations;
•        making unauthorized copies of computer software;
•        accessing “chat lines” unless authorized by the instructor for a class activity directly supervised by a staff member;
•        using abusive or profane language in private messages on the system; or using the system to harass, insult, or verbally attack others;
•        posting anonymous messages on the system;
•        using encryption software;
•        wasteful use of limited resources provided by the school including paper;
•        causing congestion of the network through lengthy downloads of files;
•        vandalizing data of another user;
•        obtaining or sending information which could be used to make destructive devices such as guns, weapons, bombs, explosives, or fireworks;
•        gaining or attempting to gain unauthorized access to resources or files;
•        identifying oneself with another person’s name or password or using an account or password of another user without proper authorization;
•        invading the privacy of individuals;
•        divulging personally identifying information about himself/herself or anyone else either on the Internet or in an email unless it is a necessary and integral part of the student's academic endeavor. Personally identifying information includes full names, address, and phone number.
•        using the network for financial or commercial gain without district permission;
•        theft or vandalism of data, equipment, or intellectual property;
•        attempting to gain access or gaining access to student records, grades, or files;
•        introducing a virus to, or otherwise improperly tampering with the system;
•        degrading or disrupting equipment or system performance;
•        creating a web page or associating a web page with the school or school district without proper authorization;
•        providing access to the District’s Internet Access to unauthorized individuals;
•        failing to obey school or classroom Internet use rules; or
•        taking part in any activity related to Internet use which creates a clear and present danger of the substantial disruption of the orderly operation of the district or any of its schools.
•        Installing or downloading software on district computers without prior approval of the technology director or his/her designee.


As a result of a violation of Brookland Technology policy, one or more of the following disciplinary actions may be taken at the administrator’s discretion:
1.        Removal of device/device
2.        Parent contact
3.        Loss of device/device rights
4.        In-school suspension
5.        Out-of-school suspension
6.        Notification of outside authority/police (charges filed if appropriate)
7.        Expulsion
Penalties for Improper Use: If the Student violates this agreement and misuses the Internet, the Student shall be subject to disciplinary action.  [Note: A.C.A. § 6-21-107 requires the district to have “…provisions for administration of punishment of students for violations of the policy with stiffer penalties for repeat offenders, and the same shall be incorporated into the district’s written student discipline policy.” Schools may choose to tailor your punishments to be appropriate to the school’s grade levels.


Title
Legal title to the property is the Brookland School District and shall at all times remain in the District. Your right of possession and use is limited to and conditioned upon your full and complete compliance with this Agreement and the Parent/Student.
Repossession: If you do not timely and fully comply with all terms of this Agreement and the device/ Device Handbook, including the timely return of the property, the District shall be entitled to declare you in default and come to your place of residence, or other location of the property, to take possession of the property.
Term of Agreement: Your right to use and possession of the property terminates no later than the last day of the school year unless earlier terminated by the District or upon withdrawal from the District.
Appropriation: Your failure to timely return the property and the continued use of it for non- school purposes without the District’s consent may be considered unlawful appropriation of the District’s property.




Grades 6th- 12th Technology Guidelines and Policies:
To be followed in addition to the policies stated previously


GENERAL USE AND CARE OF THE DEVICES AND OTHER SCHOOL-OWN DEVICES (6th -12th grade)
Students in grades 6-12 will be assigned a Chromebook that is solely theirs to use throughout the day and at home to complete assignments.
•        All equipment assigned to students 6th-12th will be their responsibility to maintain in like new condition. 
•        The device should be kept clean and free of marks at all times. No stickers, writing, drawing, engraving, decorations or otherwise defacing the device, power cords, battery, or otherwise defacing the school property will be allowed and will result in loss of privileges.
•        Students should protect their device from extreme heat or cold. Devices should be protected from the weather, water or other liquid, food, and pets.
•        Heavy objects should never be placed or stacked on top of the devices (this includes books, musical instruments, sports equipment, etc.).
•        Students should not use their device while walking. Always use devices on a stable surface.
•        Students are responsible for saving and backing up their data to their school provided Google Drive. Brookland Public Schools will not be held responsible for lost data.
•        The device should never be left unsupervised. Students and parents/guardians are responsible if a device is stolen or damaged by someone other than the student it is assigned to.
•        In the event a student damages a device that is not assigned to them, it is at the discretion of the school administration team to determine who will be charged for repairs. 
•        The device and battery are subject to inspection at any time without notice.
•        Students should never swap or share their device or device with another student.
•        Students will not be allowed to obtain/use a school owned device without their parent/guardians signing the handbook agreement 
•        ALL STUDENTS WILL USE SCHOOL ISSUED DEVICES ON ASSESSMENTS AND STANDARDIZED TESTING. Personal devices may not be used for assessments and standardized testing.


Grades 7-12 (Brookland Junior High and Brookland High School)


DAMAGE AND INVENTORY CONTROL FOR ISSUED DEVICES
•        Any damaged devices or equipment must be brought to the BPS IT Helpdesk located in room 201 of the Junior High building. 
•        Costs for repair will be charged based on damages and parts needed to return the device to like new quality.
•        Students/Guardians/Teachers are not authorized to attempt repairs themselves or contract with any other individual/business to repair the device. 
•        Students are not to exchange devices, batteries, or power adapters.  Students will be responsible for keeping track of their device and its accessories. 
•        At the conclusion of the school year, every student will confirm with IT that they still have their assigned device. Once it is confirmed, the student will take home their device for summer break. 
o        Devices will not be stored at the school. Parents/Guardians can request a student’s Chromebook be disabled for breaks. 
•        Loss, theft or damage beyond repair of the property must be reported to the Principal’s office by the next school day after the occurrence. 
•        In case of theft, vandalism or other criminal acts, a police report MUST be filed by the student or parent within 48 hours of the occurrence and a copy of the police report must be brought to the school by the next school day. 
o        Students/Parents are reminded that the act of filing a false police report is a felony. If a device is stolen and the student reports the theft (by the next school day) and a police report is filed, then the student will be charged a $250.00 fee to receive a replacement device.
o        Intentional damage will be considered vandalism. In this case, full repair or replacement cost of the device will be charged $250.00 and further disciplinary action may be taken. 
•        Lost or damaged accessories will also result in fees being charged to the students account. 
•        Students may not use chargers that do not come from BPS IT. 
•        Students who leave the district must return their device to the district before leaving or they will be charged replacement costs. 




DEVICES FOR TEMPORARY USE
•        Loaners are the responsibility of the student they are assigned to. Any damages will be charged to the student and insurance will not apply. 
•        All accessories are to be turned in with the loaner computer. Anything not turned in will be charged to the student’s debt account 
•        Any loaner devices returned without all accessories will result in fees charged to the student until they are returned or paid for. 
•        Only original accessories will be accepted. 
•        If a student has a device in for repair, they will be issued a loaner until the repair is complete. 
•        Students are to bring this loaner and all accessories to school each day in anticipation of their assigned device being ready for pick up. 
•        Students are to pick up their repaired device and return all loaner devices/accessories in a timely manner. 
•        If a student fails to bring their assigned device to school, they may check out a loaner for the day only. 
•        Day loaners that are not returned before the end of the school day will result in disciplinary intervention and/or loaner privileges being revoked. 
•        Students may check out loaner devices 2 times per semester. 
o        Excessive need to borrow a computer will result in disciplinary intervention and/or loaner privileges being revoked. 
•        It is the responsibility of the student to make sure they come to school prepared with their computer charged and ready to use in class. 
•        Loaner chargers will not be given to students if their computer is not charged. 
Loaner devices will not be given if a student’s computer is not charged.


Students who are unable to participate in class due to not having a computer will be required to make up missed work at the discretion of the teacher. 


INSURANCE 
•        Covers the student’s assigned device only. Insurance will not apply to loaner devices that are damaged while checked out to a student. 
•        Claims are filed by the parent/guardian and it is their responsibility to ship the device to SmartTech for repairs in a timely manner. 
•        Insurance will not cover damage caused by removing the battery or opening the device in attempt to repair it.


Students will have two options:


Option A- Full time user: Students will be allowed to take a device home after school and on weekends.  Students who are “online only” are considered full-time users.


Option B- Day user: The student will check their device in and out at IT Services. It is the responsibility of the student to pick up and turn in the device. IT will not be responsible for confiscating each device at the end of the school day. If the student is having difficulty turning in their device, administration may intervene to ensure the student is following the expectations of a day user at the request of the parent/guardian.


Students are assumed to be fulltime users unless stated by the parent or guardian. Parents/guardians may request students be day users through the front office or by emailing the IT Help Desk Clerk at brichardson@bpsbearcats.com


By signing the handbook agreements, the student and legal guardians agree to the terms mentioned in the technology handbook. Any violation of these terms will result in disciplinary action at the discretion of the school administration team. 












4.3—SUSPENSION FROM SCHOOL


Students who are not present at school cannot benefit from the educational opportunities the school environment affords. Administrators, therefore, shall strive to find ways to keep students in school as participants in the educational process. There are instances, however, when the needs of the other students or the interests of the orderly learning environment require the removal of a student from school. The Board authorizes school principals or their designees to suspend students for disciplinary reasons for a period of time not to exceed ten (10) school days, including the day upon which the suspension is imposed. The suspension may be in school or out of school. Students are responsible for their conduct that occurs: 
               * At any time on the school grounds; 
               * Off school grounds at a school-sponsored function, activity, or event; and 
               * Going to and from school or a school activity. 
A student may be suspended for behavior including, but not limited to, that: 
               1. Is in violation of school policies, rules, or regulations; 
               2. Substantially interferes with the safe and orderly educational environment; 
               3. School administrators believe will result in the substantial interference with the safe and orderly educational environment; and/or 
               4. Is insubordinate, incorrigible, violent, or involves moral turpitude. 
Out-of-school suspension (OSS) shall not be used to discipline a student in kindergarten through fifth (5th) grade unless the student's behavior: 
               1. Poses a physical risk to himself or herself or to others; 
               2. Causes a serious disruption that cannot be addressed through other means; or 
               3. Is the act of bringing a firearm on school campus. 
OSS shall not be used to discipline a student for skipping class, excessive absences, or other forms of truancy. 


The school principal or designee shall proceed as follows in deciding whether or not to suspend a student: 
               1. The student shall be given written notice or advised orally of the charges against him/her; 
               2. If the student denies the charges, he/she shall be given an explanation of the evidence against him/her and be allowed to present his/her version of the facts; and 
               3. If the principal finds the student guilty of the misconduct, he/she may be suspended. 
When possible, notice of the suspension, its duration, and any stipulations for the student’s re-admittance to class will be given to the parent(s), legal guardian(s), person(s) with lawful control of the student, person(s) standing in loco parentis, or to the student if age eighteen (18) or older prior to the suspension. Such notice shall be handed to the parent(s), legal guardian(s), person(s) having lawful control of the student, person(s) standing in loco parentis, or to the student if age eighteen (18) or older or mailed to the last address reflected in the records of the school district. 


Generally, notice and hearing should precede the student's removal from school, but if prior notice and hearing are not feasible, as where the student's presence endangers persons or property or threatens disruption of the academic process, thus justifying immediate removal from school, the necessary notice and hearing should follow as soon as practicable. 


It is the responsibility of a student’s parents, legal guardians, person having lawful control of the student, or person standing in loco parentis to provide current contact information to the district, which the school shall use to immediately notify the parent, legal guardian, person having lawful control of a student, or person standing in loco parentis upon the suspension of a student. The notification shall be by one of the following means, listed in order of priority:
               * A primary call number; 
               * The contact may be by voice, voice mail, or text message. 
               * An email address; 
               * A regular first class letter to the last known mailing address. 
The district shall keep a log of contacts attempted and made to the parent, legal guardian, person having lawful control of the student, or person standing in loco parentis. 


The District shall establish programs, measures, or alternative means and methods to continue student engagement and access to education during a student’s period of OSS. 


During the period of their suspension, students serving OSS are not permitted on campus except to attend a student/parent/administrator conference or when necessary as part of the District’s engagement or access to education program.
During the period of their suspension, students serving in-school suspension shall not attend or participate in any school-sponsored activities during the imposed suspension. 


Suspensions initiated by the principal or his/her designee may be appealed to the Superintendent, but not to the Board. 


Suspensions initiated by the Superintendent may be appealed to the Board.  


Last Revised: July 2026






In-School Suspension


An in-school suspension will be conducted on the following basis:


1.        The student will be assigned to a study area for the school day.  He/she will report there at 7:47 a.m. and not leave that room until the end of the school day.
2.        Students given in-school suspension will work the entire day.
3.        Any type of misconduct by a student while serving in-school suspension will result in his/her being suspended from school for at least the same number of days he/she was assigned in-school suspension or additional days of in-school suspension.
4.        Students serving in-school suspension will be kept isolated from other students during the day.
5.        Talking to or visiting with other students will be treated as misconduct.  Lunch will be brought to the I.S.S. classroom.  Students have the option of bringing their own lunch.
6.        Only the principal or his designee will assign students to in-school suspension.
7.        Students assigned to I.S.S. will complete assignments and tests while there, for full credit from their regular classes.  The I.S.S. director will coordinate this work with students and teachers.


In-school suspension shall be treated as if the student was present at school.  The student shall not attend any school-sponsored activities during school hours during the imposed suspension.  The student will be allowed to attend, BUT NOT PARTICIPATE in any school-sponsored, interscholastic activities after school hours during the imposed suspension.


ISS for grades K-2 will be located in the elementary building. ISS for 3-4 will be located in the intermediate building, and 5-6 ISS will be located in the Middle School building.


At the discretion of the principal, a student may be placed in in-school suspension in lieu of corporal punishment or regular suspension for up to five days for each occurrence.


4.31—EXPULSION


The Board of Education may expel a student for a period longer than ten (10) school days for violation of the District’s written discipline policies. The Superintendent may make a recommendation of expulsion to the Board of Education for student conduct: 
               * Deemed to be of such gravity that suspension would be inappropriate; 
               * Where the student’s continued attendance at school would disrupt the orderly learning environment; or 
               * Would pose an unreasonable danger to the welfare of other students or staff. 
Expulsion shall not be used to discipline a student in kindergarten through fifth (5th) grade unless the student's behavior: 
               1. Poses a physical risk to himself or herself or to others; 
               2. Causes a serious disruption that cannot be addressed through other means; or 
               3. Is the act of bringing a firearm on school campus. 
The Superintendent or his/her designee shall give written notice to the parents, legal guardians, persons having lawful control of the student, or persons standing in loco parentis (mailed to the address reflected on the District’s records) that he/she will recommend to the Board of Education that the student be expelled for the specified length of time and state the reasons for the recommendation to expel. The notice shall give the date, hour, and place where the Board of Education will consider and dispose of the recommendation. 


The hearing shall be conducted not later than ten (10) school days following the date of the notice, except that representatives of the Board and student may agree in writing to a date not conforming to this limitation. 


The President of the Board, Board attorney, or other designated Board member shall preside at the hearing. The student may choose to be represented by legal counsel. Both the district administration and School Board also may be represented by legal counsel. The hearing shall be conducted in open session of the Board unless the parent, legal guardian, person having lawful control of the student, person standing in loco parentis, or student if age eighteen (18) or older, requests that the hearing be conducted in executive session. Any action taken by the Board shall be in open session. 


During the hearing, the Superintendent, or designee, or representative will present evidence, including the calling of witnesses, who gave rise to the recommendation of expulsion. The student, or his/her representative, may then present evidence including statements from persons with personal knowledge of the events or circumstances relevant to the charges against the student. Formal cross-examination will not be permitted; however, any member of the Board, the Superintendent, or designee, the student, or his/her representative may question anyone making a statement and/or the student. The presiding officer shall decide questions concerning the appropriateness or relevance of any questions asked during the hearing. 


Except as permitted by policy 4.22, the Superintendent shall recommend the expulsion of any student for a period of one (1) year for possession of any firearm prohibited on school campus by law. The Superintendent shall, however, have the discretion to modify the expulsion recommendation for a student on a case-by-case basis. Parents, legal guardians, persons having lawful control of a student, or persons standing in loco parentis of a student enrolling from another school after the expiration of an expulsion period for a weapons policy violation shall be given a copy of the current laws regarding the possibility of parental responsibility for allowing a child to possess a weapon on school property. The parents, legal guardians, persons having lawful control of the student, or persons standing in loco parentis shall sign a statement acknowledging that they have read and understand said laws prior to the student being enrolled in school. 


The Superintendent and the Board of Education shall complete the expulsion process of any student that was initiated because the student possessed a firearm or other prohibited weapon on school property regardless of the enrollment status of the student. 


The District shall establish programs, measures, or alternative means and methods to continue student engagement and access to education during a student’s period of expulsion.  


Last Revised: July 2026


4.32--SEARCH, SEIZURE, AND INTERROGATIONS


The District respects the rights of its students against arbitrary intrusion of their person and property. At the same time, it is the responsibility of school officials to protect the health, safety, and welfare of all students enrolled in the District in order to promote an environment conducive to student learning. The Superintendent, principals, and their designees have the right to inspect and search school property and equipment. They may also search students and their personal property in which the student has a reasonable expectation of privacy, when there is reasonable and individualized suspicion to believe such student or property contains illegal items or other items in violation of Board policy or dangerous to the school community.1 School authorities may seize evidence found in the search and disciplinary action may be taken. Evidence found which appears to be in violation of the law shall be reported to the appropriate authority.
 
School property shall include, but not be limited to, lockers, desks, and parking lots, as well as personal effects left there by students. When possible, prior notice will be given and the student will be allowed to be present along with an adult witness; however, searches may be done at any time with or without notice or the student’s consent. A personal search must not be excessively intrusive in light of the age and sex of the student and the nature of the infraction.
 
The Superintendent, principals, and their designees may request the assistance of law enforcement officials to help conduct searches.  Such searches may include the use of specially trained dogs.
 
A school official of the same sex shall conduct personal searches with an adult witness of the same sex present.
 
State Law requires that Department of Human Services employees, local law enforcement, or agents of the Crimes Against Children Division of the Division of Arkansas State Police, may interview students without a court order for the purpose of investigating suspected child abuse. In instances where the interviewers deem it necessary, they may exercise a “72-hour hold” without first obtaining a court order. Other questioning of students by non-school personnel shall be granted only with a court order directing such questioning, with permission of the parents of a student (or the student if above eighteen [18] years of age), or in response to a subpoena or arrest warrant.
 
If the District makes a report to any law enforcement agency concerning student misconduct or if access to a student is granted to a law enforcement agency due to a court order, the principal or the principal’s designee shall make a good faith effort to contact the student’s parent, legal guardian, person having lawful control of the student, or person standing in loco parentis. The principal or the principal's designee shall not attempt to make such contact if presented documentation by the investigator that notification is prohibited because a parent, guardian, person having lawful control of the student, or person standing in loco parentis is named as an alleged offender of the suspected child maltreatment. This exception applies only to interview requests made by a law enforcement officer, an investigator of the Crimes Against Children Division of the Division of Arkansas State Police, or an investigator or employee of the Department of Human Services.
 
In instances other than those related to cases of suspected child abuse, principals must release a student to either a police officer who presents a subpoena for the student, or a warrant for arrest, or to an agent of state social services or an agent of a court with jurisdiction over a child with a court order signed by a judge. Upon release of the student, the principal or designee shall give the student’s parent, legal guardian, person having lawful control of the student, or person standing in loco parentis notice that the student has been taken into custody by law enforcement personnel or a state’s social services agency. If the principal or designee is unable to reach the parent, he or she shall make a reasonable, good faith effort to get a message to the parent to call the principal or designee, and leave both a day and an after-hours telephone number.
 
Last Revised:7/1/19


4.33—STUDENT DRIVING AND PARKING


A student who has presented a valid driver’s license and proof of insurance to the appropriate office personnel, may drive his/her vehicle to school. Vehicles driven to school shall be parked in the area designated for student parking. Parking on school property is a privilege which may be denied to a student for any disciplinary violation, at the discretion of the student’s building principal.


Students are not permitted to loiter in parking areas and are not to return to their vehicles for any reason unless given permission to do so by school personnel.


It is understood that there is no expectation of privacy in vehicle parking areas. Drivers of vehicles parked on a school campus will be held accountable for illegal substances or any other item prohibited by District policy found in their vehicle. The act of a student parking a vehicle on campus is a grant of permission for school or law enforcement authorities to search that vehicle.


The following rules apply to all students who drive cars, trucks, or any motorized vehicle to school: STUDENTS MUST BE OF LEGAL AGE (16 YEARS OLD) AND HOLD A VALID DRIVER’S LICENSE OR (15 YEARS OLD WITH A HARDSHIP LICENSE) TO OPERATE A MOTOR VEHICLE ON CAMPUS.  All vehicles must be registered in the principal’s office before a permit to drive to school is issued.  Registration includes vehicle identification, license number, and driver’s license number.  A $15.00 parking permit is required.  
1.        Vehicles must be parked on first arrival to school.  The driver and all passengers are to immediately leave the vehicle and not re-enter it during school hours.
2.        Sitting in or on vehicles during the school day is not allowed.  
3.        Students are not permitted to loiter in the parking lot.
4.        Students are not to leave the school grounds in or enter another vehicle after arriving at school.
5.        STUDENTS ARE NOT TO GO TO THEIR VEHICLE DURING THE SCHOOL DAY UNLESS PERMISSION IS GIVEN FROM THE PRINCIPAL’S OFFICE
6.        Student drivers must understand and obey the rules.  Failure to do so will result in the loss of driving privileges.
7.        Students will not exhibit any profane, vulgar, or prohibited words or pictures on their vehicle.
8.        Failure to remove the prohibited words or pictures will result in the loss of driving privileges.
9.        Students who park on campus without a proper permit, drive hazardously, or park incorrectly will be subject to the following:
a.        Loss of driving privileges for one week
b.        Loss of driving privileges for a semester
c.        Loss of all future driving privileges


4.34—COMMUNICABLE DISEASES AND PARASITES


Students with communicable diseases or with human host parasites that are transmittable in a school environment shall demonstrate respect for other students by not attending school while they are capable of transmitting their condition to others. Students whom  the school nurse determines are unwell or unfit for school attendance or who are believed to have a communicable disease or condition will be required to be picked up by their parent or guardian. Specific examples include, but are not limited to: Varicella (chicken pox), measles, scabies, conjunctivitis (Pink Eye), impetigo/MRSA (Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus), streptococcal and staphylococcal infections, ringworm, mononucleosis, Hepatitis A, B, or C, mumps, vomiting, diarrhea, and fever (100.4 F when taken orally). A student who has been sent home by the school nurse will be subsequently readmitted, at the discretion of the school nurse, when the student is no longer a transmission risk. In some instances, a letter from a health care provider may be required prior to the student being readmitted to the school.


To help control the possible spread of communicable diseases, school personnel shall follow the District's exposure control plan when dealing with any bloodborne, foodborne, and airborne pathogens exposures. Standard precautions shall be followed relating to the handling, disposal, and cleanup of blood and other potentially infectious materials such as all body fluids, secretions and excretions (except sweat). 


In accordance with 4.57—IMMUNIZATIONS, the District shall maintain a copy of each student's immunization record and a list of individuals with exemptions from immunization which shall be education records as defined in policy 4.13. That policy provides that an education record may be disclosed to appropriate parties in connection with an emergency if knowledge of the information is necessary to protect the health or safety of the student or other individuals.


A student enrolled in the District who has an immunization exemption may be removed from school at the discretion of the Arkansas Department of Health during an outbreak of the disease for which the student is not vaccinated. The student may not return to school until the outbreak has been resolved and the student's return to school is approved by the Arkansas Department of Health.


The parents or legal guardians of students found to have live human host parasites that are transmittable in a school environment will be asked to pick their child up. The parents or legal guardians will be given information concerning the eradication and control of human host parasites. A student may be readmitted after the school nurse or designee has determined the student no longer has live human host parasites that are transmittable in a school environment.


Each school may conduct screenings of students for human host parasites that are transmittable in a school environment as needed. The screenings shall be conducted in a manner that respects the privacy and confidentiality of each student.


Legal References: A.C.A. § 6-18-702,Arkansas State Board of Health Rules And Regulations Pertaining To Immunization Requirements, Arkansas Department of Education Rules Governing Kindergarten Through 12th Grade Immunization Requirements






4.35—MEDICATION POLICY


Prior to the administration of any medication, including any dietary supplement or other perceived health remedy not regulated by the US Food and Drug Administration, to any student under the age of eighteen (18), written parental consent is required. The consent form shall include authorization to administer the medication and relieve the Board and its employees of civil liability for damages or injuries resulting from the administration of medication to students in accordance with this policy. All signed medication consent forms are to be maintained by the school nurse.


Unless authorized by a physician to self-administer, students are not allowed to carry any medications, including over-the-counter (OTC) medications or any dietary supplement or other perceived health remedy not regulated by the US Food and Drug Administration while at school. The parent or legal guardian shall bring the student’s medication to the school nurse. When medications are brought to the school nurse, the nurse shall document, in the presence of the parent, the quantity of the medication(s). Each person present shall sign a form verifying the quantity of the medication(s).


Medications, including those for self-administration, must be in the original container and be properly labeled with the student’s name, the ordering provider’s name, the name of the medication, the dosage, frequency, and instructions for the administration of the medication (including times). Additional information accompanying the medication shall state the purpose for the medication, its possible side effects, and any other pertinent instructions (such as special storage requirements) or warnings. Schedule II medications that are permitted by this policy to be brought to school shall be stored in a double locked cabinet.


Students with an individualized health plan (IHP) may be given OTC medications to the extent giving such medications are included in the student's IHP.


The district’s supervising registered nurse is responsible for creating procedures for the administration of medications on and off campus.


The school shall not keep outdated medications or any medications past the end of the school year. Parents shall be notified ten (10) days in advance of the school’s intention to dispose of any medication. Medications not picked up by the parents or legal guardians within the ten (10) day period shall be disposed of by the school nurse in accordance with current law and rules.


Schedule II Medications


Students taking Schedule II medications methylphenidate (e.g. Ritalin or closely related medications as determined by the school nurse), dextroamphetamine (Dexedrine), and amphetamine sulfate (e.g. Adderall or closely related medications as determined by the school nurse) shall be allowed to attend school.


Students taking Schedule II medications not included in the previous sentence shall be allowed to bring them to school under the provisions of this policy and shall be permitted to attend and participate in classes only to the extent the student’s doctor has specifically authorized such attendance and participation.  A doctor’s prescription for a student’s Schedule II medication is not an authorization. Attendance authorization shall specifically state the degree and potential danger of physical exertion the student is permitted to undertake in the student's classes and extracurricular activities. Without a doctor’s written authorization, a student taking Schedule II medications, other than those specifically authorized in this policy, shall not be eligible to attend classes, but shall be eligible for homebound instruction if provided for in their IEP or 504 plans.


Self-Administration of Medication


Students who have written permission from their parent or guardian and a licensed health care practitioner on file with the District may:
1.               Self-administer either a:
·                 Rescue inhaler; or
·                 Auto-injectable or nasal spray epinephrine;
2.               Perform the student’s own blood glucose checks;
3.               Administer insulin through the insulin delivery system the student uses;
4.               Treat the student’s own hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia; or
5.               Possess on the student’s person:
A.             A rescue inhaler; 
B.              Auto-injectable or nasal spray epinephrine; or
C.              The necessary supplies and equipment to perform  the student’s own diabetes monitoring and treatment functions.
 
A student may be authorized to self-administer a stress dose medication to treat the student’s adrenal insufficiency with:
1.               The written authorization of the student's parent, legal guardian, or person standing in loco parentis; and
2.               A written order from the student's treating physician stating that the student:
a.               Is capable of completing the proper method of self-administration of the stress dose medication,; and
b.               Has been instructed on the details of the student’s medical condition and the events that may lead to an adrenal crisis.
The parent, legal guardian, or person standing in loco parentis of a student who is authorized to self-administer a stress dose medication shall sign an IHP developed by the school nurse for the school where the student is enrolled. The IHP shall include a requirement for the notification of appropriate staff following the self-administration of a stress dose medication, which shall include the school nurse, teacher of the classroom where the stress dose medication was administered, and a school administrator.
 
Students who have a current consent form on file shall be allowed to carry and self-administer such medication while:
·                 In school;
·                 At an on-site school sponsored activity;
·                 While traveling to or from school; or
·                 At an off-site school sponsored activity.
 A student is prohibited from sharing, transferring, or in any way diverting the student’s medications to any other person. The fact that a student with a completed consent form on file is allowed to carry a rescue inhaler,; auto-injectable or nasal spray epinephrine,; diabetes medication,; stress dose medication,; or combination does not require the student to have such on the student’s person. The parent or guardian of a student who qualifies under this policy to self-carry a rescue inhaler,; auto-injectable or nasal spray epinephrine,; diabetes medication,; stress dose medication,; or any combination on the student’s person shall provide the school with the appropriate medication, which shall be immediately available to the student in an emergency.
 
Students may possess and use a topical sunscreen that is approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration for OTC use to avoid overexposure to the sun without written authorization from a parent, legal guardian, or healthcare professional while the student is on school property or at a school-related event or activity. The parent or guardian of a student may provide written documentation authorizing specifically named District employee(s), in addition to the school nurse, to assist a student in the application of sunscreen. The District employee(s) named in the parent or legal guardian’s written authorization shall not be required to assist the student in the application of sunscreen.
 
Emergency Administration of Glucagon and Insulin
 
Students may be administered Glucagon, insulin, or both in emergency situations by the school nurse or, in the absence of the school nurse, a trained volunteer school employee designated as a care provider, provided the student has:
1.               An IHP that provides for the administration of Glucagon, insulin, or both in emergency situations; and
2.               A current, valid consent form on file from their parent or guardian.
 
When the nurse is unavailable, the trained volunteer school employee who is responsible for a student shall be released from other duties during:
A.             The time scheduled for a dose of insulin in the student’s IHP; and
B.              Glucagon or non-scheduled insulin administration once other staff have relieved him/her from other duties until a parent, guardian, other responsible adult, or medical personnel has arrived.
 
A student shall have access to a private area to perform diabetes monitoring and treatment functions as outlined in the student’s IHP.
 
Emergency Administration of Epinephrine
 
The school nurse or other trained school employees designated by the school nurse as a care provider who have been certified by a licensed physician may administer epinephrine, either through an auto-injector or nasal spray, in emergency situations to students who have an IHP that provides for the administration of epinephrine in emergency situations.
 
The parent of a student who has an authorizing IHP, or the student if over the age of eighteen (18), shall annually complete and sign a written consent form provided by the student's school nurse authorizing the nurse or other trained6 school employee(s) certified to administer epinephrine to administer auto-injector or nasal spray epinephrine to the student when the employee believes the student is having a life-threatening anaphylactic reaction.
 
Students with an order from a licensed health care provider to self-administer epinephrine, either through an auto-injector or nasal spray, and who have written permission from their parent or guardian shall provide the school nurse  either an auto-injector or nasal spray epinephrine. This epinephrine will be used in the event the school nurse, or other school employee certified to administer epinephrine, in good faith professionally believes the student is having a life-threatening anaphylactic reaction and the student is either not self-carrying epinephrine or the nurse is unable to locate it.
The school nurse for each District school shall keep epinephrine on hand that are suitable for the students the school serves. The school nurse or other trained6 school employee designated by the school nurse as a care provider who has been certified by a licensed physician may administer epinephrine to those students who the school nurse, or other trained6 school employee certified to administer auto-injector epinephrine, in good faith professionally believes is having a life-threatening anaphylactic reaction.




Emergency Administration of Albuterol


The school nurse or other trained school employees designated by the school nurse as a care provider who have been certified by a licensed physician, advanced practice registered nurse, or physician assistant may administer albuterol in emergency situations to students who have an IHP that provides for the administration of albuterol in emergency situations.


The parent of a student who has an authorizing IHP, or the student if over the age of eighteen (18), shall annually complete and sign a written consent form provided by the student's school nurse authorizing the nurse or other trained school employee(s) certified to administer albuterol to administer albuterol to the student when the employee believes the student is in perceived respiratory distress.


The school nurse for each District school shall keep albuterol on hand. The school nurse or other trained school employee designated by the school nurse as a care provider who has been trained6 and certified by a licensed physician, advanced practice registered nurse, or physician assistant may administer albuterol to those students who the school nurse, or other trained school employee certified to administer albuterol, in good faith professionally believes is in perceived respiratory distress.


Emergency Administration of Anti-opioid


The school nurse for each District school shall keep anti-opioid injectors on hand and the school nurse and school resource officer shall possess an anti-opioid at all times when on duty. The school nurse, other school employee, volunteer, or student may administer anti-opioid in accordance with the District’s procedures to a student who the school nurse, or other observer, in good faith believes is having an opioid overdose.


An opioid overdose rescue kit shall be placed within all storage locations in the District high school buildings that currently contain an automated external defibrillator for public use. The opioid overdose rescue kits shall be located where it is readily available to the public, be visually free of advertisement, and contain an anti-opioid.


Emergency Administration of Emergency Adrenal Insufficiency Medication


The school nurse or other trained school employees designated by the school nurse as a care provider who have been certified by a licensed physician may administer an injectable emergency dose medication in emergency situations to students who have an IHP that provides for the administration of an injectable emergency dose medication in emergency situations.


The parent of a student who has an authorizing IHP, or the student if over the age of eighteen (18), shall annually complete and sign a written consent form provided by the student's school nurse authorizing the nurse or other trained school employee(s) certified to administer an injectable emergency dose medication to administer an injectable emergency dose medication to the student when the employee believes the student is having an adrenal crisis due to adrenal insufficiency.


Students who have met the requirements to be authorized to self-administer a stress dose medication under this policy shall provide the school nurse an emergency injectable dose of the student’s medication. This emergency injectable dose will be used in the event the school nurse, or other school employee certified to administer an injectable emergency dose medication, in good faith professionally believes the student is having an adrenal crisis due to adrenal insufficiency.


Seizure Disorder Medications
Students who have been diagnosed with a seizure disorder shall have a seizure action plan that shall be a written IHP designed to acknowledge and prepare for the healthcare needs of the student. The student’s seizure action plan shall be created in collaboration between District staff and the student’s Parents, legal guardians, persons having lawful control of the student, or persons acting in loco parentis or the student if over eighteen (18). As part of the creation of the student’s seizure action plan, the student’s Parents, legal guardians, persons having lawful control of the student, or persons acting in loco parentis shall:
               1. Provide the school with written authorization to administer the seizure medication at school;
               2. Provide a written statement from the student’s healthcare provider that shall contain the following information:
               * The student’s name;
               * The name and purpose of the medication;
               * The prescribed dosage;
               * The route of administration;
               * The frequency that the medication should be administered; and
               * The circumstances under which the medication should be administered;
               1. Provide the prescribed medication to the school in its unopened, sealed package with the label affixed by the dispensing pharmacy intact, which shall be stored in a safe and secure location accessible only by District personnel or volunteers with training to administer seizure medication.
The written authorization, written statement, and seizure action plan shall be kept on file in the office of the school nurse or school administrator and distributed to any school personnel or volunteers responsible for the supervision or care of the student.


Last Revised:6/5/24




All medical consent, medication administration, and related forms can be obtained from the school’s nurse.


4.36—STUDENT ILLNESS/ACCIDENT


If a student becomes too ill to remain in class and/or could be contagious to other students, the principal or designee will attempt to notify the student’s parent or legal guardian.  The student will remain in the school’s health room or a place where he/she can be supervised until the parent/legal guardian can check the student out of school. Students who have become ill during their school day cannot be sent home on public transportation.”


If a student becomes seriously ill or is injured while at school and the parent/legal guardian cannot be contacted, the failure to make such contact shall not unreasonably delay the school’s expeditious transport of the student to an appropriate medical care facility.  The school assumes no responsibility for treatment of the student.  When available, current, and applicable, the student’s emergency contact numbers and medical information will be utilized.  Parents are required to keep this information up to date


4.37—EMERGENCY DRILLS


All schools in the District shall conduct fire drills at least monthly. Tornado drills shall also be conducted not fewer than three (3) times per year. Students who ride school buses, shall also participate in emergency evacuation drills at least twice each school year.


The District shall annually conduct a lockdown drill at all schools in the District in collaboration with local law enforcement, medical professionals, fire department officials, and emergency management personnel. The lockdown drill training will include use of the District’s emergency communication method with law enforcement. Students will be included in the drills to the extent that is developmentally appropriate for the age of both the students and grade configuration of the school.


Drills may be conducted during the instructional day or during non-instructional time periods.


Other types of emergency drills may also be conducted to test the implementation of the District's emergency plans in the event of violence, terrorist attack, natural disaster, other emergency, or the District’s emergency communication with law enforcement methods. Students shall be included in the drills to the extent practicable.




Notes:        districts are required to conduct a comprehensive school safety assessment to assess the safety, security, accessibility, and emergency preparedness of district buildings and grounds in collaboration with local law enforcement, fire, and emergency management officials. The school safety assessment must be conducted at least once every three (3) years, with the initial school safety assessment being completed by no later than August 1, 2024. The comprehensive school safety assessment shall be conducted by more than one (1) individual, which must include at least one (1) individual who is not assigned to the district facility being assessed. The comprehensive school safety assessment shall include at least all of the following:
               * Safety and security of the site and exterior of buildings;
               * Access control;
               * Safety and security of the interior of buildings; 
               * Monitoring and surveillance, including without limitation type and extent;
               * Communication and information security;
               * Review of emergency operation plans; and
               * School climate and culture.
Revised:6/5/23


4.38—PERMANENT RECORDS


Permanent school records, as required by the Division of Elementary and Secondary Education (DESE), shall be maintained for each student enrolled in the District until the student receives a high school diploma or its equivalent or is beyond the age of compulsory school attendance. A copy of the student’s permanent record shall be provided to the receiving school district within ten (10) school days after the date a request from the receiving school district is received.


Last Revised:7/1/19


4.39—CORPORAL PUNISHMENT


The Brookland School Board authorizes the use of corporal punishment to be administered in accordance with this policy by the Superintendent or the superintendent’s designated staff members who are required to have a state-issued license as a condition of their employment.
Prior to the administration of corporal punishment, the student receiving the corporal punishment shall be given an explanation of the reasons for the punishment and be given an opportunity to refute the charges. 


All corporal punishment shall be administered privately, i.e. out of the sight and hearing of other students, shall not be excessive, or administered with malice, and shall be administered in the presence of another school administrator or designee who shall be a licensed staff member employed by the District. 


Corporal punishment shall not be used as a form of discipline for a student who is intellectually disabled, non-ambulatory, non-verbal, or autistic.  


Last Revised:July 2026


4.40—HOMELESS STUDENTS


The Brookland School District will afford the same services and educational opportunities to homeless children as are afforded to non-homeless children. The Superintendent or his/her designee shall appoint an appropriate staff person to be the local educational agency (LEA) liaison for homeless children and youth whose responsibilities shall include, but are not limited to:
               * Receive appropriate time and training in order to carry out the duties required by law and this policy;
               * Coordinate and collaborate with the State Coordinator, community, and school personnel responsible for education and related services to homeless children and youths;
               * Ensure that school personnel receive Professional development and other support regarding their duties and responsibilities for homeless youths;
               * Ensure that unaccompanied homeless youths:
               * Are enrolled in school;
               * Have opportunities to meet the same challenging State academic standards as other children and youths; and
               * Are informed of their status as independent students under the Higher Education Act of 1965 and that they may obtain assistance from the LEA liaison to receive verification of such status for purposes of the Free Application for Federal Student Aid;
               * Ensure that public notice of the educational rights of the homeless children and youths is disseminated in locations frequented by parents or guardians of such youth, and unaccompanied homeless youths, including schools, shelters, public libraries, and soup kitchens, in a manner and form that is easily understandable.


To the extent possible, the LEA liaison and the building principal shall work together to ensure no homeless child or youth is harmed due to conflicts with District policies solely because of the homeless child or youth’s living situation; this is especially true for District policies governing fees, fines, and absences.


Notwithstanding Policy 4.1, homeless students living in the district are entitled to enroll in the district’s school that non-homeless students who live in the same attendance area are eligible to attend. If there is a question concerning the enrollment of a homeless child due to a conflict with Policy 4.1 or 4.2, the child shall be immediately admitted to the school in which enrollment is sought pending resolution of the dispute, including all appeals. It is the responsibility of the District’s LEA liaison for homeless children and youth to carry out the dispute resolution process. 


For the purposes of this policy “school of origin” means:
               * The school that a child or youth attended when permanently housed or the school in which the child or youth was last enrolled, including a preschool; and
               * The designated receiving school at the next grade level for all feeder schools when the child completes the final grade provided by the school of origin.


The District shall do one of the following according to what is in the best interests of a homeless child:
               1. Continue the child's or youth's education in the school of origin for the duration of homelessness:
               * In any case in which a family becomes homeless between academic years or during an academic year; and
               * For the remainder of the academic year, if the child or youth becomes permanently housed during an academic year; or
               1. Enroll the child or youth in any public school that non homeless students who live in the attendance area in which the child or youth is actually living are eligible to attend.


In determining the best interest of the child or youth, the District shall:
               * Presume that keeping the child or youth in the school of origin is in the child's or youth's best interest, except when doing so is contrary to the request of the child's or youth's parent or guardian, or (in the case of an unaccompanied youth) the youth;
               * Consider student-centered factors related to the child's or youth's best interest, including factors related to the impact of mobility on achievement, education, health, and safety of homeless children and youth, giving priority to the request of the child's or youth's parent or guardian or (in the case of an unaccompanied youth) the youth.


If the District determines that it is not in the child's or youth's best interest to attend the school of origin or the school requested by the parent or guardian, or (in the case of an unaccompanied youth) the youth, the District shall provide the child's or youth's parent or guardian or the unaccompanied youth with a written explanation of the reasons for its determination, in a manner and form understandable to such parent, guardian, or unaccompanied youth, including information regarding the right to appeal. For an unaccompanied youth, the District shall ensure that the LEA liaison assists in placement or enrollment decisions, gives priority to the views of such unaccompanied youth, and provides notice to such youth of the right to appeal.


The homeless child or youth must be immediately enrolled in the selected school regardless of whether application or enrollment deadlines were missed during the period of homelessness.


The District shall be responsible for providing transportation for a homeless child, at the request of the parent or guardian (or in the case of an unaccompanied youth, the LEA Liaison), to and from the child’s school of origin.


A homeless student shall be immediately eligible to participate in interscholastic activities at the school in which the student is enrolled.


For the purposes of this policy, students shall be considered homeless if they lack a fixed, regular, and adequate nighttime residence and:
               1. Are:
               * Sharing the housing of other persons due to loss of housing, economic hardship, or a similar reason;
               * Living in motels, hotels, trailer parks, or camping grounds due to the lack of alternative adequate accommodations;
               * Living in emergency or transitional shelters;
               * Abandoned in hospitals; or
               2. Have a primary nighttime residence that is a public or private place not designed for or ordinarily used as a regular sleeping accommodation for human beings;
               3. Are living in cars, parks, public spaces, abandoned buildings, substandard housing, bus or train stations, or similar settings; and
               4. Are migratory children who are living in circumstances described in clauses (a) through (c).


In accordance with Federal law, information on a homeless child or youth’s living situation is part of the student’s education record and shall not be considered, or added, to the list of directory information in Policy 4.13.
A.C.A. § 9-25-106 includes additional rights for unaccompanied youth who are certified by the district LEA to be homeless.
Revised: 6/5/23
4.41—PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS OR SCREENINGS




The district conducts routine health screenings such as hearing, vision, and scoliosis due to the importance these health factors play in the ability of a student to succeed in school. The intent of the exams or screenings is to detect defects in hearing, vision, or other elements of health that would adversely affect the student’s ability to achieve his/her full potential. 


“A child who does not pass the eye and vision screening tests, except for the color perception test,  shall be required to have a comprehensive eye and vision examination conducted by an optometrist or ophthalmologist within sixty (60) days of receipt of the vision screening report identifying the need for the examination.”-Arkansas Code Annotated § 6-18-1502 (a)(1)


The rights provided to parents under this policy transfer to the student when he/she turns eighteen (18) years old.


Except in instances where a student is suspected of having a contagious or infectious disease, parents shall have the right to opt their student out of the exams or screenings by using form 4.41F or by providing certification from a physician that he/she has recently examined the student. 






Legal References:        A.C.A. § 6-18-701 (b), (c), (f)


Secondary Only:
A student may be required to pass a physical exam before being allowed to participate in certain extracurricular activities to help ensure they are physically capable of withstanding the rigors of the activity.  It is understood that students who refuse to take such an exam will not be allowed to participate in the desired activity.  The rights provided to parents under this policy transfer to the student when he/she turns eighteen years old.


4.42—STUDENT HANDBOOK


It shall be the policy of the Brookland School District that the most recently adopted version of the Student Handbook be incorporated by reference into the policies of this district.  In the event that there is a conflict between the student handbook and a general board policy or policies, the more recently adopted language will be considered binding and controlling on the matter provided the parent(s) of the student, or the student if 18 years of age or older have acknowledged receipt of the controlling language. 


Principals shall review all changes to student policies and ensure that such changes are provided to students and parents, either in the Handbook or, if changes are made after the handbook is printed, as an addendum to the handbook.


Principals and counselors shall also review Policies 4.45—SMART CORE CURRICULUM AND GRADUATION REQUIREMENTS and the current ADE Standards for Accreditation Rules to ensure that there is no conflict. If a conflict exists, the Principal and/or Counselor shall notify the Superintendent and Curriculum Coordinator immediately, so that corrections may be made and notice of the requirements given to students and parents. 


4.43 –ATTENDANCE FOR STUDENTS IN GRADES 9-12 (MODIFIED SCHEDULE OPTIONS FOR GRADES 11 and 12 ONLY) 
Act 867 of 2017 repealed the statutory authority for the mandatory seat time of 360 minutes per week for students in grades 9-12. Brookland Public Schools understands the value of the mandatory 360 minutes of seat time per week in school or the equivalent policy that was used to determine seat time for students enrolled in classes at institutions of higher education. The district also understands that students who have met or are on track to meet all educational requirements (typically in their 11th and 12th grade year) may benefit from personalized learning opportunities through the option to enroll in postsecondary training through colleges or technical schools, participate in internships or community service projects, or gain work experience through paid employment. Due to the rescinding of the mandatory 360 minute seat time requirement, the Brookland school district will require 12th grade students to be in attendance for at least 4 consecutive periods of the day (based on the traditional 7 period day). Students who qualify for a modified schedule in their senior year will have an option of attending 4 periods. Students who qualify for a modified schedule in their 11th grade year will have an option of attending at least 5 consecutive periods of that day (based on the traditional 8 period day).
As this is a local policy, the district has chosen to place the following stipulations on this policy: 
. This will apply to students in 11th and 12th grades only. 
∙ Students must have met or be on track to meet all graduation requirements. 
∙ Students in extracurricular activities will have to continue to meet all GPA requirements and attendance requirements for their particular activity. 
∙ Students understand that they may potentially lose opportunities to raise their GPA or meet honor graduate requirements by participating in this waiver program. 
∙ Students utilizing this plan will not be able to request a study hall or other non-credit classes. Students could potentially be placed in a study hall or non-credit class by the administration if circumstances make it necessary due to class size issues, class availability, etc. 
∙ Students released under this provision would be expected to remain away from campus unless returning for school-related business. (Extracurricular activities, make-up testing, club meetings, etc.) 
∙ District must possess an approved education/occupation plan indicating parent/guardian permission to request attendance waiver. 
Legal References: Act 867 of 2017 46 Date Adopted: July 2, 2018
4.44—NATIONAL ANTHEM
Each school in the District shall broadcast The Star-Spangled Banner at:
·   The commencement of each school-sanctioned sporting event; however, if two (2) or more school-sanctioned sporting events occur on the same day at the same school, then the broadcast of The Star-Spangled Banner may be performed at only one (1) of the events; and
·    At least one (1) time each week during school hours.
 The broadcast of The Star-Spangled Banner shall be selected from any recording that adheres to the Division of Elementary and Secondary Education (DESE) Rules, or, when appropriate, performed from original sheet music that adheres to DESE rules by:
o          A school-sanctioned band program;
o          A school-sanctioned chorale program, vocal group, or vocalist; or
o          The attendees of a school-sanctioned event led by a vocalist selected by the principal of the school hosting the school-sanctioned event.
 Students shall not be compelled to participate in the performance of The Star-Spangled Banner, but students who choose not to participate in the performance of The Star-Spangled Banner shall not disrupt those students choosing to participate in the performance of The Star-Spangled Banner. Students choosing not to participate in the performance of The Star-Spangled Banner who do not disrupt the participation of performance of The Star-Spangled Banner shall not be subject to any comments, retaliation, or disciplinary action.
Legal Reference:                    A.C.A. § 6-10-135
 Date Adopted: 7/1/21
4.45—GRADUATION REQUIREMENTS FOR THE CLASS OF 2026
Information regarding graduation requirements will be sent home with students prior to their enrolling in seventh (7th) grade, or when a seventh (7th) through twelfth (12th) grade student enrolls in the district for the first time. This policy is to be included in student handbooks for grades six (6) through twelve (12) and both students and parents must sign an acknowledgement they have received the policy. All students are required to fulfill the Core curriculum or the Alternate Pathway to Graduation when required by their IEP to be eligible for graduation. Counseling by trained personnel shall be available to students and their parents or legal guardians as part of the creation of the student’s Student Success Plan. 


This policy and the courses necessary for graduation shall be reviewed by staff, students, and parents as part of the annual school district strategic plan development process to determine if changes need to be made to better serve the needs of the district’s students. The superintendent, or the superintendent’s designee, shall select the composition of the review panel. 


Sufficient information relating to the district’s graduation requirements shall be communicated to parents and students to ensure their informed understanding; this shall be accomplished through holding an informational meeting for parents, legal guardians, or persons standing in loco parentis to students enrolled in grades six through twelve (6-12) with the school counselor and may be accomplished through any or all of the additional following means: 


Inclusion in the student handbook of the graduation requirements; 


Discussion of the graduation requirements at the school’s annual public meeting, PTA meetings, or a meeting held specifically for the purpose of informing the public on this matter; and/or 


Distribution of a newsletter(s) to parents or guardians of the district’s students. 


Administrators, or their designees, shall train newly hired employees, required to be licensed as a condition of their employment, regarding this policy. The district’s annual professional development shall include the training required by this paragraph.
To the best of its ability, the District shall follow the requirements covering the transfer of course credit and graduation set forth in the Interstate Compact on Educational Opportunity for Military Children and the Arkansas Military Child School Transitions Act of 2021 for all students who meet the definition of “eligible child” in Policy 4.2—ENTRANCE REQUIREMENTS including the waiving of specific courses that are required for graduation if similar coursework has been satisfactorily completed. 


GRADUATION REQUIREMENTS 
The number of units students must earn to be eligible for high school graduation is to be earned from the categories listed below. A minimum of twenty-two (22) units is required for graduation. In addition to the twenty-two (22) units required for graduation by the Division of Elementary and Secondary Education (DESE), the district requires an additional __ units to graduate for a total of __ units. The additional required units may be taken from any electives offered by the district. Accelerated learning courses or career education courses that are determined by DESE to be eligible for use in the place of a listed course may be substituted for the course as designated by DESE. 


All students must receive a passing score on the Arkansas Civics Exam in order to graduate. 


Students shall be trained in quality psychomotor skill bases in cardiopulmonary resuscitation and the use of automated external defibrillators in order to graduate. 


Personal and Family Finance 
All students shall receive credit in a course covering the Personal and Family Finance Standards in order to graduate. 


Computer Science 
All students shall earn one (1) unit of credit in a computer science or computer science related career and technical education course in order to graduate. 


Community Service 
Except as otherwise provided by this policy or the student’s IEP, each student must receive seventy-five (75) clock hours of community service that is certified by the service agency or organization where the student volunteers or the student’s parent. The community service must be in programs or activities, either in Arkansas or outside of Arkansas, that meet the requirements established by the State Board and the District Board of Directors and include preparation, action, and reflection components. A student who transfers into the District after ninth (9th) grade must receive at least the following documented clock hours of community service each year: 
               * Fifteen (15) hours for students in grade nine (9); 
               * Twenty (20) hours for students in grade ten (10); 
               * Twenty (20) hours for students in grade eleven (11); and 
               * Twenty (20) hours for students in grade twelve (12). 
Students transferring into the District after grade nine (9) or students who are graduating early may receive a diploma provided that the minimum requirement for each year the student attends the District is met. The District Board of Directors may grant a waiver of the community service requirement for extenuating circumstances on a case-by-case basis, which may include without limitation: 
               * A major illness associated with a student or a family member of a student; 
               * Student homelessness or housing insecurity; and 
               * Notice to the public school district board of directors if the student is a major contributor to family income. 
English: four (4) units 
               * English 1 
               * English 2 
               * English 3 
               * English 4 
Oral Communications: one-half (½) unit 


Mathematics: four (4) units 
               * Algebra or its equivalent* - 1 unit 
               * Geometry or its equivalent* - 1 unit 
               * All math units must build on the base of algebra and geometry knowledge and skills. 
               * (Comparable accelerated learning courses may be substituted where applicable) 
               *  An applicable computer science flex credit may be taken in the place of a math credit beyond Algebra I and Geometry. 
* A two-year algebra equivalent or a two-year geometry equivalent may each be counted as two units of the four (4) unit requirement. 


Science: three (3) units 
               1. DESE approved biology – 1 credit; 
               2. DESE approved physical science – 1 credit; and 
               3. A third unit that is either: 
               * An additional science credit approved by DESE; or 
               * A computer science flex credit may be taken in the place of a third science credit. 
Social Studies: three (3) units 
               * Civics one-half (½) unit 
               * World history, one (1) unit 
               * American History, one (1) unit 
               * Other social studies – one-half (½) unit 
Physical Education: one-half (½) unit 
Note: While one-half (½) unit is required for graduation, no more than one (1) unit may be applied toward fulfilling the necessary units to graduate. 


Health and Safety: one-half (½) unit 


Economics – one half (½) unit – dependent upon the licensure of the teacher teaching the course, this can count toward the required three (3) social studies credits or the six (6) required Career Focus elective credits. 


Fine Arts: one-half (½) unit 


CAREER FOCUS: - Six (6) units 
All career focus unit requirements shall be established through guidance and counseling based on the student’s contemplated work aspirations. Career focus courses shall conform to the curriculum policy of the district and reflect state curriculum frameworks through course sequencing and career course concentrations where appropriate. 


A student who enlists in a branch of the United States Armed Forces or the National Guard through the military delayed entry program, the National Guard Split Training Option, or other similar early entry program and completes basic training before graduating from high school shall receive two (2) units of the Career Focus graduation requirements.  


Last Revised: July 2026






4.45.1—GRADUATION REQUIREMENTS FOR THE CLASS OF 2027 AND THEREAFTER
 
Graduation requirements will be sent home with students prior to their enrolling in seventh (7th) grade, or when a seventh (7th) through twelfth (12th) grade student enrolls in the district for the first time. This policy is to be included in student handbooks for grades six (6) through twelve (12) and both students and parents must sign an acknowledgement they have received the policy. All students are required to fulfill the Core curriculum or the Alternate Pathway to Graduation when required by their IEP to be eligible for graduation. Counseling by trained personnel shall be available to students and their parents or legal guardians as part of the creation of the student’s  Student Success Plan.
 
This policy and the courses necessary for graduation shall be reviewed by staff, students, and parents as part of the annual school district strategic plan development process31 to determine if changes need to be made to better serve the needs of the district’s students. The superintendent, or the superintendent’s designee, shall select the composition of the review panel.
 
Sufficient information relating to the district’s graduation requirements shall be communicated to parents and students to ensure their informed understanding; this shall be accomplished through holding an informational meeting for parents, legal guardians, or persons standing in loco parentis to students enrolled in grades six through twelve (6-12) with the school counselor and may be accomplished through any or all of the additional following means:
Inclusion in the student handbook of the S graduation requirements;
·                 Discussion of the graduation requirements at the school’s annual public meeting, PTA meetings, or a meeting held specifically for the purpose of informing the public on this matter; and/or
·                 Distribution of a newsletter(s) to parents or guardians of the district’s students.
 
Administrators, or their designees, shall train newly hired employees, required to be licensed as a condition of their employment, regarding this policy. The district’s annual professional development shall include the training required by this paragraph.53
 To the best of its ability, the District shall follow the requirements covering the transfer of course credit and graduation set forth in the Interstate Compact on Educational Opportunity for Military Children and the Arkansas Military Child School Transitions Act of 2021 for all students who meet the definition of “eligible child” in Policy 4.2—ENTRANCE REQUIREMENTS including the waiving of specific courses that are required for graduation if similar coursework has been satisfactorily completed.
 GRADUATION REQUIREMENTS
The number of units students must earn to be eligible for high school graduation is to be earned from the categories listed below. A minimum of twenty-two (22) units is required for graduation. In addition to the twenty-two (22) units required for graduation by the Division of Elementary and Secondary Education (DESE), the district requires an additional ­­__ units to graduate for a total of __ units. The additional required units may be taken from any electives offered by the district. Accelerated learning courses or career education courses that are determined by DESE to be eligible for use in the place of a listed course may be substituted for the course as designated by DESE.
 All students must receive a passing score on the Arkansas Civics Exam in order to graduate.
 Students shall be trained in quality psychomotor skill bases in cardiopulmonary resuscitation and the use of automated external defibrillators in order to graduate.
 Personal and Family Finance
All students shall receive credit in a course covering the Personal and Family Finance Standards in order to graduate.
 Computer Science
All students shall earn one (1) unit of credit in a computer science or computer science related career and technical education course in order to graduate.
 
Community Service
Except as otherwise provided by this policy or the student’s IEP, each student must receive seventy-five (75) clock hours of community service that is certified by the service agency or organization where the student volunteers or the student’s parent. The community service must be in programs or activities, either in Arkansas or outside of Arkansas, that meet the requirements established by the State Board and the District Board of Directors and include preparation, action, and reflection components. A student who transfers into the District after ninth (9th) grade must receive at least the following documented clock hours of community service each year:
o       Fifteen (15) hours for students in grade nine (9);
o       Twenty (20) hours for students in grade ten (10);
o       Twenty (20) hours for students in grade eleven (11); and
o       Twenty (20) hours for students in grade twelve (12).
Students transferring into the District after grade nine (9) or students who are graduating early may receive a diploma provided that the minimum requirement for each year the student attends the District is met. The District Board of Directors may grant a waiver of the community service requirement for extenuating circumstances on a case-by-case basis, which may include without limitation:
·                 A major illness associated with a student or a family member of a student;
·                 Student homelessness or housing insecurity; and
·                 Notice to the public school district board of directors if the student is a major contributor to family income.
 
English: four (4) units – 9th, 10th, 11th, and 12th
 Oral Communications: one-half (½) unit
 Mathematics: four (4) units
·                 Algebra or its equivalent* - 1 unit
·                 Geometry or its equivalent* - 1 unit
·                 All math units must build on the base of algebra and geometry knowledge and skills.
·                 (Comparable accelerated learning courses may be substituted where applicable)
·                 A computer science flex credit may be taken in the place of a math credit beyond Algebra I and Geometry.
* A two-year algebra equivalent or a two-year geometry equivalent may each be counted as two units of the four (4) unit requirement.
 Science: three (3) units
a.               DESE approved biology – 1 credit;
b.               DESE approved physical science – 1 credit; and
c.               A third unit that is either:
o       An additional science credit approved by DESE; or
o       A computer science flex credit may be taken in the place of a third science credit.
 Social Studies: three (3) units
·                 Civics one-half (½) unit
·                 World history, one (1) unit
·                 American History, one (1) unit
·                 Other social studies – one-half (½) unit
 Physical Education: one-half (½) unit
Note: While one-half (½) unit is required for graduation, no more than one (1) unit may be applied toward fulfilling the necessary units to graduate.
 Health and Safety: one-half (½) unit
 Economics – one half (½) unit – dependent upon the licensure of the teacher teaching the course, this can count toward the required three (3) social studies credits or the six (6) required Career Focus elective credits.75
 Fine Arts: one-half (½) unit
 
CAREER FOCUS: - Six (6) units
All career focus unit requirements shall be established through guidance and counseling based on the student’s contemplated work aspirations. Career focus courses shall conform to the curriculum policy of the district and reflect state curriculum frameworks through course sequencing and career course concentrations where appropriate.
 A student who enlists in a branch of the United States Armed Forces or the National Guard through the military delayed entry program, the National Guard Split Training Option, or other similar early entry program and completes basic training before graduating from high school shall receive two (2) units of the Career Focus graduation requirements.




Adopted: June 2025


4.46—PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE AND MOMENT OF SILENCE
 
The Pledge of Allegiance shall be recited: 
1.   During the first class period of each school day;
2.    At the commencement of each school-sanctioned after-school assembly; and
3.     At the commencement of each school-sanctioned sporting event; however, if two (2) or more school-sanctioned sporting events occur on the same day at the same school, then the Pledge may be recited at only one (1) of the school-sanctioned sporting events.
 Students choosing to participate in the recitation of the Pledge shall do so by facing the flag with their right hands over their hearts, or in an appropriate salute if in uniform, while reciting the Pledge. Students choosing not to participate shall stand or sit quietly while the other students recite the Pledge.
 Students shall not be compelled to recite the Pledge, but students who choose not to recite the Pledge shall not disrupt those students choosing to recite the Pledge. Students choosing not to recite the Pledge who do not disrupt those students who choose to recite the Pledge shall not be subject to any comments, retaliation, or disciplinary action.
 Following the recitation of the Pledge, there shall be an observance of one (1) minute of silence. During the one (1) minute of silence, each student may reflect, pray, meditate, or engage in any other silent activity that is not likely to interfere with or distract another student. Students who do not disrupt the one (1) minute of silence shall not be subject to any comments, retaliation, or disciplinary action.
Revised: 7/1/21
4.48—VIDEO SURVEILLANCE AND OTHER STUDENT MONITORING
 
The Board of Directors has a responsibility to maintain discipline, protect the safety, security, and welfare of its students, staff, and visitors while at the same time safeguarding district facilities, vehicles, and equipment. As part of fulfilling this responsibility, the board authorizes the use of video/audio surveillance cameras, automatic identification technology, data compilation devices, and technology capable of tracking the physical location of district equipment, students, and/or personnel. 


The placement of video/audio surveillance cameras shall be based on the presumption and belief that students, staff and visitors have no reasonable expectation of privacy anywhere on or near school property, facilities, vehicles, or equipment, with the exception of places such as rest rooms or dressing areas where an expectation of bodily privacy is reasonable and customary. 


Signs shall be posted on campus buildings and in district vehicles to notify students, staff, and visitors that video cameras may be in use. Parents and students shall also be notified through the student handbook that cameras may be in use in school buildings, on school grounds and in school vehicles. Students will be held responsible for any violations of school discipline rules caught by the cameras and other technologies authorized in this policy. 


The district shall retain copies of video recordings until they are erased  which may be accomplished by either deletion or copying over with a new recording. Other than video recordings being retained under the provisions of this policy’s following paragraph, the district’s video recordings may be erased any time greater than 15 days after they were created.


Videos, automatic identification, or data compilations containing evidence of a violation of student conduct rules and/or state or federal law shall be retained until the issue of the misconduct is no longer subject to review or appeal as determined by board policy or student handbook; any release or viewing of such records shall be in accordance with current law. 


Students who vandalize, damage, disable, or render inoperable (temporarily or permanently) surveillance cameras and equipment, automatic identification, or data compilation devices shall be subject to appropriate disciplinary action and referral to appropriate law enforcement authorities. 


Legal References:        20 USC 1232, 0 U.S.C. 7115,34 CFR 99.3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 10, 12, 31


4.49—SPECIAL EDUCATION
 
In accordance with the Individuals With Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Americans With Disabilities Act, and Arkansas Statutes, the district shall provide a free appropriate public education and necessary related services to all children with disabilities who reside: 
·                                         Within the district boundaries; or
·                                         Outside of the District boundaries but are enrolled in the District.
It is the intent of the district to ensure that students who are disabled within the definition of Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 are identified, evaluated and provided with appropriate educational services. Students may be disabled within the meaning of Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act even though they do not require services pursuant to the IDEA.
 
For students eligible for services under IDEA, the District shall follow procedures for identification, evaluation, placement, and delivery of services to children with disabilities provided in the state and federal statutes governing special education. Implementation of an Individualized Education Program (IEP) in accordance with the IDEA satisfies the district's obligation to provide a free and appropriate education under Section 504.
 
The Board directs the superintendent to ensure procedures are in place for the implementation of special education services and that programs are developed to conform to the requirements of state and federal legislation. The superintendent is responsible for appointing a district coordinator for overseeing district fulfillment of its responsibilities regarding students with disabilities. Among the coordinator’s responsibilities shall be ensuring district enforcement of the due process rights of students with disabilities and their parents.


4.50—SCHOOL MEAL MODIFICATIONS
 
The district only provides modified meal components on menus to accommodate students with a disability. A parent/guardian wishing to request dietary accommodations for their student with a disability must submit to the district’s Director of Child Nutrition a medical statement completed by a State licensed healthcare professional, which includes:
·                  Physicians, including those licensed by:
o        The Arkansas State Medical Board;
o        The Arkansas State Board of Chiropractic Examiners (Chiropractors);
o        The Arkansas Board of Podiatric Medicine (Podiatrists);
·                  Nurse Practitioners (APRNs in family or pediatric practice with prescriptive authority);
·                  Physician Assistants (PAs who work in collaborative practice with a physician); and
·                  Dentists.
 
The medical statement should include:
1.              A description of the student’s disability that is sufficient to understand how the disability restricts the student’s diet;
2.              An explanation of what must be done to accommodate the disability, which may include:
a.               Food(s) to avoid or restrict;
b.              Food(s) to substitute;
c.               Caloric modifications; or
d.             The substitution of a liquid nutritive formula.
 
If the information provided in the medical statement is unclear, or lacks sufficient detail, the district’s Director of Child Nutrition shall request additional information so that a proper and safe meal can be provided.
 
When choosing an appropriate approach to accommodate a student’s disability, the District will consider the expense and efficiency of the requested accommodations. The District will offer a reasonable modification that effectively accommodates the child’s disability and provides equal opportunity to participate in or benefit from the program, which may include a generic version of a product.
 
Parents may file a grievance regarding the request for accommodations with the District’s 504 Coordinator, who will schedule a hearing on the grievance to be held as soon as possible. The 504 coordinator shall provide a copy of the procedures governing the hearing, including that the parent has the right to be accompanied by counsel, and the appeal process upon request.
 
The district will not prepare meals outside the normal menu to accommodate a family’s religious or personal health beliefs. 


LUNCH AND BREAKFAST PROGRAM


               * A hot lunch and breakfast program is provided in the cafeteria for the benefit and convenience of the students.  Care is taken to ensure a variety of well balanced meals and all students are encouraged to take advantage of this service.
               * No food of any kind should be taken from the cafeteria.
               * The lunch price  will be $3.25 for grades 7-12 and $3.00 for grades PreK-6. Reduced price lunch is 40 cents.  Adult lunches are $4.00.  Price of breakfast is $2.00 for all.  Reduced priced breakfast is 30 cents. All prices are subject to change with inflation.
               * The district does not offer credit for food items purchased in the school cafeteria; payment for such items is due at the time the food items are received. Parents or students choosing to do so may pay weekly or monthly in advance for students’ meals.
               * Free and reduced-lunch applications will be distributed to all students on the first day of school and are also available in the principal’s office.  Forms must be returned to the cafeteria clerk or principal as soon as possible or charges will incur.


Free Breakfast
In accordance with A.C.A. § 6-18-722, a student shall be provided one (1) breakfast at no cost during each school day upon the student’s request regardless of whether the student qualifies for a federally funded free or reduced-price meal.


Outside lunches/deliveries will not be accepted.  Forgotten lunch boxes will be accepted.


4.52—STUDENTS WHO ARE FOSTER CHILDREN


The District will afford the same services and educational opportunities to foster children that are afforded other children and youth. The District shall work with the Department of Human Services (“DHS”), the Arkansas Department of Education (ADE), and individuals involved with each foster child to ensure that the foster child is able to maintain his/her continuity of educational services to the fullest extent that is practical and reasonable.
 
The Superintendent or his/her designee shall appoint an appropriate staff person to be the local educational liaison for foster children and youth whose responsibilities shall include ensuring the timely school enrollment of each foster child and assisting foster children who transfer between schools by expediting the transfer of relevant educational records.
 
The District, working with other individuals and agencies shall, unless the presiding court rules otherwise or DHS grants a request to transfer under Foster Child School Choice, ensure that the foster child remains in his/her school of origin, even if a change in the foster child’s placement results in a residency that is outside the district. In such a situation, the District will work with DHS to arrange for transportation to and from school for the foster child to the extent it is reasonable and practical.
 
Upon notification to the District’s foster care liaison by a foster child’s case worker that a foster child’s school enrollment is being changed to one of the District’s schools, the school receiving the child must immediately enroll him/her. Immediate enrollment is required even if a child lacks the required clothing, academic or medical records, or proof of residency.
 
A foster child’s grades shall not be lowered due to absence from school that is caused by a change in the child’s school enrollment, the child’s attendance at dependency-neglect court proceedings, or other court-ordered counseling or treatment.
 
Any course work completed by the foster child prior to a school enrollment change shall be accepted as academic credit so long as the child has satisfactorily completed the appropriate academic placement assessment.
 
If a foster child was enrolled in a District school immediately prior to completing his/her graduation requirements while detained in a juvenile detention facility or while committed to the Division of Youth Services of DHS, the District shall issue the child a diploma.
 
Foster Child School Choice
If DHS approves a request from a foster parent, or the foster child if the foster child is eighteen (18) years of age, to transfer to another school in the District or into the district as being in the best interest of the foster child, the District shall allow the foster child to transfer to another school in the District or into the District if the foster parent, or the foster child if the foster child is eighteen (18) years of age, submits a request to transfer on a form approved by ADE that is postmarked by no later than June 1 of the year the student seeks to begin the fall semester at another school in the District or in the District.
 
By July 1 of the school year in which the student seeks to transfer under this section, the superintendent shall notify the foster parent, or the foster child if the foster child is eighteen (18) years of age, in writing whether the application has been accepted or rejected. If the application is accepted, the superintendent shall state in the notification letter a reasonable deadline for the foster child to enroll in the new school or the District and that failure to enroll by the date shall void the school choice acceptance. If the application is rejected, the superintendent shall state in the notification letter the reason for the rejection and that the foster parent, or the foster child if the foster child is eighteen (18) years of age, may submit a written appeal of the rejection to the State board within ten (10) days of receiving the notification letter.
 
The District shall only reject a Foster Child School Choice application if:
1.              The public school or District has reached the maximum student-to-teacher ratio allowed under federal law; state law; the standards for accreditation; or other applicable State rule or Federal regulation; or
2.              Approving the transfer would conflict with a provision of an enforceable desegregation court order or a public school district’s court-approved desegregation plan regarding the effects of past racial segregation in student assignment.
 
A foster child whose application is rejected by the District may submit a written request within ten (10) days following the receipt of the rejection letter from the superintendent to the State Board of Education for the State Board to reconsider the transfer.
 
A Foster Child School Choice transfer shall remain in effect until the foster child:
·                  Graduates from high school; or
·                  Transfers to another school or school district under:
o    The Foster Child School Choice Act;
o    Opportunity Public School Choice Act of 2004;
o    The Public School Choice Act of 2015; or
o    Any other law that allows a transfer.
 
The District shall accept credits toward graduation that were awarded by another public school district.
 
When a foster child transfers from the foster child’s school of origin to another school in the District or into the District, the foster child or the foster parent is responsible for the foster child’s transportation to and from the school the foster child transferred to. The District and the foster parent, or the foster child if the foster child is eighteen (18) years of age, may enter into a written agreement for the District to provide the transportation to and from the school the foster child transferred to.


Legal Reference: A.C.A. § 9-28-113


4.53—PLACEMENT OF MULTIPLE BIRTH SIBLINGS


The parent, guardian or other person having charge or custody of multiple birth siblings in grades pre-K through 6 may request that the multiple birth siblings are placed in either the same or separate classrooms. The request shall be in writing not later than the 14th calendar day prior to the first day of classes at the beginning of the academic year. The school shall honor the request unless it would require the school to add an additional class to the sibling’s grade level. If one parent of multiple birth siblings requests a placement that differs from that of the other parent of the same multiple birth siblings, the school shall determine the appropriate placement of the siblings.


The school may change the classroom placement of one or more of the multiple birth siblings if:
               * There have been a minimum of 30 instructional days since the start of the school year; and
               * After consulting with each classroom teacher in which the siblings were placed, the school determines the parent’s classroom placement request is:
               * Detrimental to the educational achievement of one or more of the siblings;
               * Disruptive to the siblings’ assigned classroom learning environment; or
               * Disruptive to the school’s educational or disciplinary environment.


If a parent believes the school has not followed the requirements of this policy, the parent may appeal the multiple birth siblings’ classroom placement to the Superintendent. The Superintendent’s decision regarding the appeal shall be final.


Legal Reference:        A.C.A. § 6-18-106


BROOKLAND SCHOOL GIFTED AND TALENTED POLICY


The Brookland School District has a Gifted and Talented Program in grades K-12. The students are identified as being gifted utilizing procedures and criteria established by the district and the state Department of Education.  For example, teacher observation checklists and standardized tests are used as a tool to identify the gifted and talented in Brookland Elementary School.


After being identified as gifted, the students receive instruction in a pullout learning environment by a qualified teacher.


4.54—STUDENT ACCELERATION
The Board believes that acceleration is an effective and research-based intervention for the academic growth of students who are ready for an advanced or faster-paced curriculum. Acceleration can allow a student to move through the traditional educational setting more rapidly, based on assessed readiness, capability, and motivation. At the same time, the Board understands that acceleration is not a replacement for gifted education services or programs. 


Generally, acceleration can occur through one of two broad categories: content based and grade based. Grade based acceleration shortens the number of years a student would otherwise spend in K-12 education, while content based acceleration occurs within the normal K-12 time span. Either form of acceleration can be triggered by either a parent/guardian, student, or community member's request or by the referral of school personnel.


Elementary School Students


The process of determining the appropriateness of a request for an elementary school student to receive acceleration shall be under the direction of the district/school Gifted and Talented Program Coordinator. The district/school Gifted and Talented Program Coordinator shall convene the Acceleration Placement Committee and communicate with the individuals necessary for the Acceleration Placement Committee to make an informed decision, which shall include the student's parents or guardians.
While the needs of the student should dictate when acceleration decisions are considered, the Board believes the optimal time for referrals is in the spring, which gives adequate time for working through the determination process and for preparing those concerned for a smooth transition to the acceleration beginning in the following school-year. 


The District's Gifted and Talented (GT) Program Coordinator will create a written format to govern the referral and determination for elementary school students process, which shall be made available to any parent or staff member upon request. 


The parents/guardians of any elementary school student whose request for acceleration has been denied may appeal the decision, in writing to the District's GT Coordinator. The Districts GT Coordinator and the Acceleration Placement Committee will again thoroughly review the case study that was completed on the student. Upon completion of the review, the Committee will either request additional new testing be conducted to help the Committee make its determination or it will uphold the initial decision. The Committee's decision may not be further appealed.


Course Selection Students


District students who attend a District school that authorizes the student to select individual courses shall have acceleration options provided to them by the counselor during the course selection process. The course selection process shall be part of the Student Success Plan created and modified in accordance with Policy 4.55—STUDENT PROMOTION AND RETENTION. 


4.55—STUDENT PROMOTION AND RETENTION


A disservice is done to students through social promotion and is prohibited by state law. The District shall, at a minimum, evaluate each student annually in an effort to help each student who is not performing at grade level. Parents, legal guardians, persons having lawful control of the student, or persons acting in loco parentis shall be kept informed concerning the progress of their student(s). Notice of a student’s possible retention or required retaking of a course shall be included with the student’s grades sent home to each parent/guardian or the student if 18 or older. Parent-teacher conferences are encouraged and may be held as necessary in an effort to improve a student’s academic success.


Each time a student is assessed by use of a high-quality literacy screener, with results at least once each semester, the Parents, legal guardians, persons having lawful control of the student, or persons acting in loco parentis, and teacher(s) of a student in kindergarten through eighth (8th) grade shall be notified in writing of the student’s independent grade-level-equivalency in reading and, in a parent friendly manner, the student’s reading progress.


Any grades, course credits, and/or promotions received by a student while enrolled in the Division of Youth Services system of education shall be considered transferable in the same manner as those grades, course credits, and promotions from other accredited Arkansas public educational entities.


Promotion or retention of students, or their required retaking of a course shall be primarily based on the following criteria. If there is doubt concerning the promotion or retention of a student or his/her required retaking of a course, a conference shall be held before a final decision is made that includes the following individuals:
               1. The building principal or designee;
               2. The student’s teacher(s);
               3. School counselor;
               4. A 504/special education representative (if applicable); and
               5. The student’s parents, legal guardians, persons having lawful control of the student, or persons standing in loco parentis.
The conference shall be held at a time and place that best accommodates those participating in the conference. The school shall document participation or non-participation in required conferences. If the conference attendees fail to agree concerning the student’s placement or receipt of course credit, the final decision shall rest with the principal or the principal’s designee.


Each student shall have a student success plan (SSP) developed by school personnel in collaboration with the student’s parents and the student that is reviewed and updated annually. A student’s SSP shall use multiple academic measures to personalize learning in order for students to achieve their grade-level expectations and individual growth. The SSP will identify if the student is in need of additional support or acceleration. Academic measures to be used in creating and updating a student’s SSP shall include, but are not limited to:
               * Statewide student assessment results;
               * Subject grades;
               * Student work samples; and
               * Local assessment scores.


The SSP for a student in kindergarten through grade three (K-3) who does not meet the reading standard as set by the state board and determined by a high-quality literacy screener or the statewide assessment shall include an individual reading plan for each student. An individual reading plan shall include:
               1. The student's specific, diagnosed reading skill needs, including without limitation:
               * Phonemic awareness;
               * Phonics decoding;
               * Text reading fluency;
               * Vocabulary-building strategies; and
               * Self-regulated use of reading comprehension strategies, as identified by high-quality literacy screener data;
               2. The goals and benchmarks for the student's growth;
               3. How the student's progress will be monitored and evaluated;
               4. The type of additional instructional services and interventions the student may receive;
               5. The intensive, evidence-based literacy intervention program aligned to the science of reading the student's teacher will use to address the areas of phonemic awareness, phonics, fluency, vocabulary, and comprehension;
               6. The strategies the student's parents, legal guardians, or persons standing in loco parentis to the student are encouraged to use in assisting the student to achieve the student's reading goal; and
               7. Any additional services the student's teacher determines are available and appropriate to accelerate the student's reading skill development.


All parents, legal guardians, or persons standing in loco parentis shall be notified in writing:
               1. Of the content of their child's independent reading plan and progress on the independent reading plan throughout the year; and
               2. By no later than October 1 of each year, or as soon as practicable if a student's reading need is identified after October 1:
               * Of their student’s eligibility to participate in the literacy tutoring grant program;
               * The process for applying for the literacy tutoring grant program; and
               * Other information provided by DESE.


For each student who does not meet the reading standard established by the state board by the end of third (3rd) grade, including students who are promoted to the fourth (4th) grade under a good cause waiver, the District, during the subsequent summer and school year, shall:
               1. Provide at least ninety (90) minutes of evidence-based literacy instruction aligned to the science of reading during each school day;
               2. Assign the student to:
               * If the District has a teacher with a value-added model score in the top quartile statewide in English language arts for the past three (3) years, a teacher with a value-added model score in the top quartile statewide in English language arts for the past three (3) years; or
               * If the District is unable to identify a teacher with a value-added model score in the top quartile statewide in English language arts for the past three (3) years, a teacher:
               * With a highly-effective rating according to the Teacher Excellence and Support System, when possible; or
               * Deemed to be a high-performing teacher as defined by a Master Professional Educator designation.
               3. Provide parents, legal guardians, or persons standing in loco parentis to students with a “read-at-home” plan to support student early literacy growth, which shall include evidence-based science of reading strategies and tools that are aligned to a student’s individual reading plan for parents, legal guardians, or persons standing in loco parentis to use with their student;
               4. Notify parents, legal guardians, or persons standing in loco parentis to a student regarding their student’s eligibility for a literacy tutoring grant;
               5. Be given priority to receive a literacy tutoring grant; and
               6. Be given the option to participate in additional intensive, evidence-based literacy intervention programs aligned to the science of reading.


The SSP of a student in kindergarten through grade eight (K-8) who is not performing at or above grade level on the state assessment, as defined by the State Board of Education shall include a math intervention plan. The math intervention plan may include the:
               1. Provision of each student with access to high-dosage, targeted math tutoring in the subsequent school year, which shall include three (3) or more tutoring sessions a week in a one-on-one or small-group setting;
               2. Assignment to:
               * if the District has a teacher with a value-added model score in the top quartile statewide in math for the previous three (3) years, a teacher, with a value-added model score in the top quartile statewide in math for the previous three (3) years; or
               * if the District is unable to find a teacher with a value-added model score in the top quartile statewide in math for the previous three (3) years, a teacher:
               * With a highly-effective rating in the Teacher Excellence and Support System, when possible; or
               * Deemed to be a high-performing teacher as defined by a Master Professional Educator designation; and
               3. Provision of each student with extended time on math instruction during or after school.


All parents, legal guardians, or persons standing in loco parentis shall receive written notification of their student's math intervention plan and progress on the student’s math intervention plan throughout the school year.


By the end of grade eight (8), the student’s SSP shall:
               * Guide the student along pathways to graduation;
               * Address accelerated learning opportunities;
               * Address academic deficits and interventions; and 
               * Include college and career planning components.


Based on a student’s score on the college and career assessment:
               * The student’s SSP will be updated in order to assist the student with college and career readiness skills, course selection in high school, and improved academic achievement; and
               * Provide a basis for counseling concerning postsecondary preparatory programs.


A student’s SSP shall include the recommended sequence of courses for successful completion of the diploma pathway selected by the student but be sufficiently flexible to allow the student to change the student’s selected diploma pathway. The school counselor shall meet with the student's parent, legal guardian, or persons standing in loco parentis and the student to review the student’s SSP annually and to revise the student’s SSP as necessary to identify the courses to be taken each year until all required core courses are completed. Part of the review shall include an explanation of the possible impacts the revisions to the plan might have on the student's graduation requirements and postsecondary education goals. Any change made to a student's SSP as part of the review that amends the student’s diploma pathway shall be structured to ensure that the student will meet the high school graduation requirements for the student's chosen diploma pathway and be qualified for admission to a postsecondary educational institution or to enter the workforce. After each review, the student's SSP shall be signed by the student; student's parent, legal guardian, or person standing in loco parentis to the student; and the school counselor.


An SSP shall be created:
               1. By no later than the end of the school year for a student in grade eight (8) or below who enrolls in the District during the school year; or
               2. As soon as reasonably possible for a student in grade nine (9) or above who enrolls in the District at the beginning or during the school year.


A student’s individualized education program (IEP) may act in the place of the student’s SSP if the IEP addresses academic deficits and interventions for the student’s failure to meet standards-based academic goals at an expected rate or level and includes a transition plan that addresses college and career planning components. Promotion or retention of students with an IEP shall be based on their successful attainment of the goals set forth in their IEP.


Students who either refuse to sit for a Statewide assessment or attempt to boycott a Statewide assessment by failing to put forth a good faith effort on the assessment as determined by the assessment administrator/proctor, or whose parents do not send their student to school on the dates the assessments are originally administered or scheduled as make-up days shall not be permitted to participate in any non-curriculum related extracurricular activity, including school dances, prom, homecoming, senior events, and may be prevented from walking or participating in graduation exercises. The student shall remain ineligible to participate until the student takes the same or a following Statewide assessment, as applicable. The Superintendent or designee may waive this paragraph's provisions when the student’s failure was due to exceptional or extraordinary circumstances. Students falling under the provisions of this paragraph shall be permitted to attend curriculum related field trips occurring during the school day.


PRIMARY/ELEMENTARY/INTERMEDIATE SCHOOL RETENTION POLICY


Promotion or retention of students shall be primarily based on the following criteria:


Kindergarten:
               * He/she does not show adequate progress on report cards.
               * He/she does not have 80% mastery on assessments in literacy.
               * He/she does not have 80% mastery of assessments in mathematics. 
               * Other criteria to be taken into consideration:
Poor social maturity
Poor scores on formative, in-house, and/or standardized assessments
Unfavorable committee recommendation


First Grade
               * He/she has less than an 80% mastery of high frequency words.
               * He/she has mastery of less than 80% of first grade literacy skills.
               * He/she has mastery of less than 80% of first grade math skills.
               * Other criteria to be taken into consideration:
Poor social maturity
Poor scores on formative, in-house, and/or standardized assessments
Unfavorable committee recommendation


Second/Third Grade:
               * He/she has mastery of less than 70% second semester cumulative in reading and/or math.
               * Other criteria to be taken into consideration:
Poor social maturity
Poor scores on formative, in-house, and/or standardized assessments
Unfavorable committee recommendation


Excessive absences may result in retention at any level.


If there is a doubt concerning the promotion or retention of a student, before a final decision is made, a conference between the parents/guardians, teacher(s), other pertinent personnel, and the principal shall be held. The conference shall be held at a time and place that best accommodates those participating in the conference. The school shall document participation or non-participation in required conferences. If the conference attendees fail to agree concerning the student’s placement, the final decision to promote or retain shall rest with the principal.


MIDDLE SCHOOL RETENTION POLICY


Middle School will adhere to the following retention policy and procedures as adopted by the Brookland School Board. 


The classroom teacher will schedule a conference as soon as January 5, and no later than April 23, to notify the parent or guardian of the possible retention of the student.  The participation or non-participation of the parent or guardian in this required conference will be documented by the school counselor.


A retention committee will meet after the student has been recommended for retention by the classroom teacher.  This committee will consist of the student’s parent or guardian, the classroom teacher, a special education teacher (if needed), the school counselor and the principal (for the final meeting).


The retention committee will analyze the following data before making a decision:  classroom performance, teacher recommendation, nine-week progress reports, and the following criteria listed below.


The committee will take into consideration these possible exceptions:  students in special education classes may be exempt from the retention policy in certain cases (depending upon the IEP), students who have been retained twice previously may be exempt, and unusual circumstances, determined by the principal.


Students will be considered for retention and may be retained if:


Third, Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Grade:
               * He/she must pass 2 of 4 core courses for the year (Literacy, Math, Science, Social Studies).
               * If a student is not passing 2 of 4 core courses for the (combined average for the year), the student will be retained for the school year.


Excessive absences may result in retention at any level.


Revised: 6/5/23








4.56—EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES – SECONDARY SCHOOLS


Definitions:


Definitions:


“Academic Courses” are those courses for which class time is scheduled, which can be credited to meet the minimum requirements for graduation, which is taught by a teacher required to have State licensure in the course or is otherwise qualified under Arkansas statute, and has a course content guide which has been approved by the Division of Elementary and Secondary Education (DESE). Any of the courses for which concurrent high school credit is earned may be from an institution of higher education recognized by DESE. If a student passes an academic course offered on a block schedule, the course can be counted twice toward meeting the requirement for students to pass four (4) academic courses per semester as required by this policy.


“Extracurricular activities'' are defined as: any school sponsored program where students from one or more schools meet, work, perform, practice under supervision outside of regular class time, or are competing for the purpose of receiving an award, rating, recognition, or criticism, or qualification for additional competition. Examples include, but are not limited to, inter/interscholastic athletics, cheerleading, band, choral, math, or science competitions, field trips, and club activities.


 “Field Trips” are when individual students or groups of students are invited to programs or events when there is no competition and the students are not interacting with each other for the purpose of planning, qualifying, or arranging for future programs or for the purpose of receiving recognition.


“Interscholastic Activities” means athletic or non-athletic/academic activities where students compete on a school vs. school basis.


“Interscholastic Activities” means athletic or non-athletic/academic activities where students compete with students from within the same school.


“Supplemental Improvement Program (SIP)” is an additional instructional opportunity for identified students outside of their regular classroom and meets the criteria outlined in the current Arkansas Activities Association (AAA) Handbook.


Extracurricular Eligibility


The Board believes in providing opportunities for students to participate in extracurricular activities that can help enrich the student’s educational experience. At the same time, the Board believes that a student’s participation in extracurricular activities cannot come at the expense of his/her classroom academic achievement. Interruptions of instructional time in the classroom are to be minimal and absences from class to participate in extracurricular activities shall not exceed one per week per extracurricular activity (tournaments excepted). Additionally, a student’s participation in, and the District’s operation of, extracurricular activities shall be subject to the following policy. All students are eligible for extracurricular activities unless specifically denied eligibility on the basis of criteria outlined in this policy.


Any student who refuses to sit for a Statewide assessment or attempts to boycott a Statewide assessment by failing to put forth a good faith effort on the assessment as determined by the assessment administrator/proctor, or whose parents do not send their student to school on the dates the assessments are administered or scheduled as make-up days shall not be permitted to participate in any non-curriculum related extracurricular activity. The student shall remain ineligible to participate until the student takes the same or a following statewide assessment, as applicable. The superintendent or designee may waive this paragraph's provisions when the student’s failure was due to exceptional or extraordinary circumstances. Students falling under the provisions of this paragraph shall be permitted to attend curriculum related field trips occurring during the school day.


A student who enrolls in the district and meets the definition of “eligible child” in Policy 4.2—ENTRANCE REQUIREMENTS shall be eligible to try out for an extracurricular activity regardless of the date the student enrolls in the District so long as the student meets all other eligibility requirements and the extracurricular activity is still ongoing.


A student and the parent or legal guardian of the student shall sign and return an acknowledgement of receipt and review of an information sheet regarding signs and symptoms of sudden cardiac arrest before the student may participate in an athletic activity and before each school year the student participates in an athletic activity.


No student shall be required to pay for individual or group instruction in order to participate in an extracurricular activity.


Interscholastic Activities


Each school in the District shall post on its website its schedule of interscholastic activities, including sign-up, tryout, and participation deadlines, at least one semester in advance of those activities. A hard copy of the schedule shall be available upon request.


ACADEMIC REQUIREMENTS: Junior High


A student promoted from the sixth to the seventh grade automatically meets scholarship requirements. A student promoted from the seventh to the eighth grade automatically meets scholarship requirements for the first semester. The second semester eighth-grade student meets the scholarship requirements for junior high if he/she has successfully passed four (4) academic courses the previous semester.


The first semester ninth-grade student meets the scholarship requirements for junior high if he/she has successfully passed four (4) academic courses the previous semester.


The second semester ninth-grade student meets the scholarship requirements for junior high if he/she has successfully passed (4) academic courses the previous semester which count toward his/her high school graduation requirements.


Ninth-grade students must meet the requirements of the senior high scholarship rule by the end of the second semester in the ninth grade in order to be eligible to participate in the fall semester of their tenth-grade year.


ACADEMIC REQUIREMENTS: Senior High


In order to remain eligible for competitive interscholastic activity, a student must have passed (4) academic courses the previous semester and either: 
               1. Have earned a minimum Grade Point Average (GPA) of 2.0 from all academic courses the previous semester; or
               2. If the student has passed four (4) academic courses the previous semester but does not have a 2.0 GPA the student must be enrolled and successfully participating in an SIP to maintain their competitive interscholastic extracurricular eligibility.


STUDENTS WITH AN INDIVIDUAL EDUCATION PROGRAM


In order to be considered eligible to participate in competitive interscholastic activities, students with disabilities must pass at least four (4) courses per semester as required by their individual education program (IEP).


Homeless Students
Students who are determined to be experiencing homelessness by the school’s homeless LEA shall be eligible for participation in interscholastic activities.


ARKANSAS ACTIVITIES ASSOCIATION


In addition to the foregoing rules, the district shall abide by the rules of AAA governing interscholastic activities. AAA provides catastrophic insurance coverage for students participating in AAA governed extracurricular activities who are enrolled in school. As a matter of District policy, no student may participate in a AAA governed extracurricular activity unless he or she is enrolled in a district school, to ensure all students are eligible for AAA catastrophic insurance.


Interscholastic Activities


AAA Governed Activities


Students participating in interscholastic extracurricular activities that would be governed by AAA if they were to occur between students of different schools shall meet all interscholastic activity eligibility requirements to be eligible to participate in the comparable interscholastic activity. The District will abide by the AAA Handbook for such activities to ensure District students are not disqualified from participating in interscholastic activities.


Non-AAA Governed Activities


Unless made ineligible by District policies, all students shall be eligible to participate in non-AAA governed interscholastic extracurricular activities. Interscholastic activities designed for a particular grade(s) or course(s) shall require the student to be enrolled in the grade(s) or course(s).


School Choice Transfers
A student who transfers under a legal school choice option shall not be denied participation in an extracurricular activity where the student transfers based exclusively on the student’s decision to transfer. A student who transfers after June 1 of the year the student enters grade seven (7) shall complete a Changing Schools/Athletic Participation form as defined by AAA, which must be signed by the:
               * Superintendent of the student's resident school district;
               * Superintendent of the nonresident school district to which the student transfers; and
               * Parent, legal guardian, person having lawful control of the student, or person standing in loco parentis to the student.
The completed Changing Schools/Athletic Participation form shall be filed with the non-resident school district where the student transfers and the AAA. The Changing Schools/Athletic Participation form shall be signed by the superintendent of a student's resident school district and the superintendent of the nonresident school district to which a student transfers unless there is demonstrable evidence of recruiting by the receiving school district personnel or that the student is transferring to the nonresident school district solely for athletic purposes.


Districts should be aware that the AAA handbook contains rules prohibiting students who participate on school sponsored teams of the following interscholastic activities from being permitted to participate in practices and competitions for the same sport during the same season of the interscholastic activity;


               1. Football;
               2. Basketball;
               3. Baseball;
               4. Softball; and
               5. Volleyball.


Revised: 6/5/23


4.56.1—EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES - PRIMARY/ELEMENTARY


Definitions:
 
“Academic Courses” are those courses for which class time is scheduled, which can be credited to meet the minimum requirements for graduation, which is taught by a teacher required to have State licensure in the course or is otherwise qualified under Arkansas statute, and has a course content guide which has been approved by the Division of Elementary and Secondary Education (DESE). Any of the courses for which concurrent high school credit is earned may be from an institution of higher education recognized by DESE. If a student passes an academic course offered on a block schedule, the course can be counted twice toward meeting the requirement for students to pass four (4) academic courses per semester as required by this policy.
 
“Extracurricular activities'' are defined as: any school sponsored program where students from one or more schools meet, work, perform, practice under supervision outside of regular class time, or are competing for the purpose of receiving an award, rating, recognition, or criticism, or qualification for additional competition. Examples include, but are not limited to, inter/interscholastic athletics, cheerleading, band, choral, math, or science competitions, field trips, and club activities.
 
 “Field Trips” are when individual students or groups of students are invited to programs or events when there is no competition and the students are not interacting with each other for the purpose of planning, qualifying, or arranging for future programs or for the purpose of receiving recognition.
 
“Interscholastic Activities” means athletic or non-athletic/academic activities where students compete on a school vs. school basis.1
 
“Interscholastic Activities” means athletic or non-athletic/academic activities where students compete with students from within the same school.1
 
“Supplemental Improvement Program (SIP)” is an additional instructional opportunity for identified students outside of their regular classroom and meets the criteria outlined in the current Arkansas Activities Association (AAA) Handbook.
 
Extracurricular Eligibility
 
The Board believes in providing opportunities for students to participate in extracurricular activities that can help enrich the student’s educational experience. At the same time, the Board believes that a student’s participation in extracurricular activities cannot come at the expense of his/her classroom academic achievement. Interruptions of instructional time in the classroom are to be minimal and absences from class to participate in extracurricular activities shall not exceed one per week per extracurricular activity (tournaments excepted)2. Additionally, a student’s participation in, and the District’s operation of, extracurricular activities shall be subject to the following policy. All students are eligible for extracurricular activities unless specifically denied eligibility on the basis of criteria outlined in this policy.
 
Any student who refuses to sit for a Statewide assessment or attempts to boycott a Statewide assessment by failing to put forth a good faith effort on the assessment as determined by the assessment administrator/proctor, or whose parents do not send their student to school on the dates the assessments are administered or scheduled as make-up days shall not be permitted to participate in any non-curriculum related extracurricular activity. The student shall remain ineligible to participate until the student takes the same or a following statewide assessment, as applicable. The superintendent or designee may waive this paragraph's provisions when the student’s failure was due to exceptional or extraordinary circumstances.3 Students falling under the provisions of this paragraph shall be permitted to attend curriculum related field trips occurring during the school day.4
 
A student who enrolls in the district and meets the definition of “eligible child” in Policy 4.2—ENTRANCE REQUIREMENTS shall be eligible to try out for an extracurricular activity regardless of the date the student enrolls in the District so long as the student meets all other eligibility requirements and the extracurricular activity is still ongoing.
 
A student and the parent or legal guardian of the student shall sign and return an acknowledgement of receipt and review of an information sheet regarding signs and symptoms of sudden cardiac arrest before the student may participate in an athletic activity and before each school year the student participates in an athletic activity.
 
 No student shall be required to pay for individual or group instruction in order to participate in an extracurricular activity.


Interscholastic Activities
 
Each school in the District shall post on its website its schedule of interscholastic activities, including sign-up, tryout, and participation deadlines, at least one semester in advance of those activities. A hard copy of the schedule shall be available upon request.5
 
ACADEMIC REQUIREMENTS: Junior High
 
A student promoted from the sixth to the seventh grade automatically meets scholarship requirements. A student promoted from the seventh to the eighth grade automatically meets scholarship requirements for the first semester. The second semester eighth-grade student meets the scholarship requirements for junior high if he/she has successfully passed four (4) academic courses the previous semester.
 
The first semester ninth-grade student meets the scholarship requirements for junior high if he/she has successfully passed four (4) academic courses the previous semester.
 
The second semester ninth-grade student meets the scholarship requirements for junior high if he/she has successfully passed (4) academic courses the previous semester which count toward his/her high school graduation requirements.
 
Ninth-grade students must meet the requirements of the senior high scholarship rule by the end of the second semester in the ninth grade in order to be eligible to participate in the fall semester of their tenth-grade year.
 
ACADEMIC REQUIREMENTS: Senior High
 
In order to remain eligible for competitive interscholastic activity, a student must have passed (4) academic courses the previous semester and either:
1.                                     Have earned a minimum Grade Point Average (GPA) of 2.0 from all academic courses the previous semester; or
2.                                     If the student has passed four (4) academic courses the previous semester but does not have a 2.0 GPA the student must be enrolled and successfully participating in an SIP to maintain their competitive interscholastic extracurricular eligibility.
 
STUDENTS WITH AN INDIVIDUAL EDUCATION PROGRAM
 
In order to be considered eligible to participate in competitive interscholastic activities, students with disabilities must pass at least four (4) courses per semester as required by their individual education program (IEP).
 
ARKANSAS ACTIVITIES ASSOCIATION
 
In addition to the foregoing rules, the district shall abide by the rules and regulations of AAA governing interscholastic activities. AAA provides catastrophic insurance coverage for students participating in AAA governed extracurricular activities who are enrolled in school. As a matter of District policy, no student may participate in a AAA governed extracurricular activity unless he or she is enrolled in a district school, to ensure all students are eligible for AAA catastrophic insurance.6
 
Interscholastic Activities
 
AAA Governed Activities
 
Students participating in interscholastic extracurricular activities that would be governed by AAA if they were to occur between students of different schools shall meet all interscholastic activity eligibility requirements to be eligible to participate in the comparable interscholastic activity. The District will abide by the AAA Handbook for such activities to ensure District students are not disqualified from participating in interscholastic activities.7
 
Non-AAA Governed Activities
 
Unless made ineligible by District policies, all students shall be eligible to participate in non-AAA governed interscholastic extracurricular activities. Interscholastic activities designed for a particular grade(s) or course(s) shall require the student to be enrolled in the grade(s) or course(s).


Last Revised:7/1/19


4.56.2—EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITY ELIGIBILITY FOR HOME SCHOOLED STUDENTS 


Home-schooled student means a student legally enrolled in an Arkansas home school and who meets or has met the criteria for being a home-schooled student, as established by A.C.A. § 6-15-503.


Interscholastic activity means an activity between schools subject to rules of the Arkansas Activities Association that is outside the regular curriculum of the school district, such as an athletic activity, fine arts program, or a special interest group or club.


Each school in the District shall post on its website its schedule of interscholastic activities, including sign-up, tryout, and participation deadlines, at least one semester in advance of those activities. A hard copy of the schedule shall be available upon request.


Home-schooled students whose parents or guardians are legal residents of the school district will be permitted to pursue participation in an interscholastic activity in the student's resident school zone as permitted by this policy.


Home-schooled students whose parent or legal guardian are not residents of the school district will be permitted to pursue participation in an interscholastic activity in the District if:
               * The superintendent of the student’s resident district and the superintendent of the District both agree in writing to allow the student to participate in interscholastic activities at the District; or
               * The student's resident school does not offer the interscholastic activity and the superintendent of the non-resident district agrees to allow the student to enroll in the interscholastic activity.


Although not guaranteed participation in an interscholastic activity, home-school students who meet the provisions of this policy, AAA Rules, and applicable Arkansas statutes shall have an equal opportunity to try out and participate in interscholastic activities without discrimination. The District shall provide a reasonable alternative to any prerequisite for eligibility to participate in an interscholastic activity that the home-schooled student is unable to meet because of his or her enrollment in a home school.


No student shall be required to pay for individual or group instruction in order to participate in an interscholastic activity.


To be eligible to try out and participate in interscholastic activities, the student or the parent of a student shall mail or hand deliver the student's request to participate to the student's school's principal before the signup, tryout or participation deadline established for traditional students. Additionally, the student shall demonstrate academic eligibility by obtaining a minimum test score of the 30th percentile or better in the previous 12 months on the Stanford Achievement Test Series, Tenth Edition; another nationally recognized norm-referenced test; or a minimum score on a test approved by the State Board of Education.


A student who meets the requirements for eligibility to participate in an interscholastic activity is required to register for no more than one non-academic course in the District's school where the student is intending to participate in an interscholastic activity that coincides with the interscholastic activity in which the homeschooled student participates  and shall be required to be at school only when participation in the interscholastic activity requires other students who participate in the interscholastic activity to be at school.


The student shall regularly attend the class in which the student is registered beginning no later than the eleventh (11th) day of the semester in which the student's interscholastic activity participation is desired. The student must attend the practices for the interscholastic activity to the same extent as is required of traditional students.


A student and the parent or legal guardian of the student shall sign and return an acknowledgement of receipt and review of an information sheet regarding signs and symptoms of sudden cardiac arrest before the student may participate in an athletic activity and before each school year the student participates in an athletic activity.


A home-schooled student who has met the try out criteria; and who has been selected to participate in the interscholastic activity shall meet the following criteria that also apply to traditional students enrolled in the school:
               * standards of behavior and codes of conduct; 
               * attend the practices for the interscholastic activity to the same extent as is required of traditional students;
               * required drug testing;
               * permission slips, waivers, physical exams; and
               * participation or activity fees.


Students who participate in extracurricular or athletic activities under this policy will be transported to and from the interscholastic activities on the same basis as other students are transported.


A home schooled student may begin participating in an interscholastic activity immediately upon being approved to participate by the District if:
               * The home schooled student has not withdrawn from an Arkansas Activities Association member school; or
               * The student has withdrawn from an AAA member school and enrolled in a home school but did not participate in an interscholastic activity that is a varsity sport at the student’s resident district prior to the student’s withdrawal from the AAA member school.
A home schooled student shall not be eligible to participate for up to three hundred sixty-five (365) days if:
1.               The District is the home schooled student’s resident district and the home schooled student is not approved to participate in an interscholastic activity at the District by June 1 of the school year the student will be enrolled in grade seven (7), eight (8), nine (9), or ten (10);
2.               The District is not the home schooled student’s resident district and the home schooled student is not approved to participate in an interscholastic activity that is a varsity athletic activity at the District by June 1 of the school year the student will be enrolled in grade seven (7), eight (8), nine (9), or ten (10); or
3.                 The home schooled student   withdrew from an AAA member school and participated in an interscholastic activity that is a varsity athletic activity at the student’s resident district during the previous three hundred sixty-five (365) days and is seeking to participate in an interscholastic activity that is a varsity   athletic activity in the District.
A student who is prohibited from participation in an interscholastic activity due to number 1 shall not become eligible to participate in any interscholastic activity until the completion of the three hundred sixty-five (365) day period. A student who is prohibited from participation in an interscholastic activity that is a varsity athletic activity due to numbers 2 or 3 shall not be eligible for full participation in an interscholastic activity that is a varsity atheletc activity until the completion of the three hundred sixty-five (365) day period.  A student who is not eligible for full participation may participate in tryouts, practices, classes, or other endeavors associated with the interscholastic activity until the completion of the three hundred sixty-five (365) day period


Revised: June 2025


4.57—IMMUNIZATIONS


Definitions
 “In process” means the student has received at least one dose of the required immunizations and is waiting the minimum time interval to receive the additional dose(s).
 “Serologic testing” refers to a medical procedure used to determine an individual’s immunity to Hepatitis B, Measles, Mumps, Rubella and Varicella.
 General Requirements
 Unless otherwise provided by law or this policy, no student shall be admitted to attend classes in the District who has not been age appropriately immunized against1:
·   Poliomyelitis;
·   Diphtheria;
·    Tetanus;
·     Pertussis;
·    Red (rubeola) measles;
·    Rubella;
·     Mumps;
·     Hepatitis A;
·     Hepatitis B;
·    Meningococcal disease;
·    Varicella (chickenpox); and
·   Any other immunization required by the Arkansas Department of Health (ADH).
The District administration has the responsibility to evaluate the immunization status of District students. The District shall maintain a list of all students who are not fully age appropriately immunized or who have an exemption provided by ADH to the immunization requirements based on medical, religious, or philosophical grounds. Students who are not fully age appropriately immunized when seeking admittance shall be referred to a medical authority for consultation.
The only types of proof of immunization the District will accept are immunization records provided by a:
A.                                  Licensed physician;
B.                                  Health department;
C.                                  Military service; 
D.                                  Official record from another educational institution in Arkansas.; or
E.    An immunization record printed off of the statewide immunization registry with the Official Seal of the State of Arkansas.
The proof of immunization must include the vaccine type and dates of vaccine administration. Documents stating “up-to-date”, “complete”, “adequate”, and the like will not be accepted as proof of immunization. No self or parental history of varicella disease will be accepted as a history of varicella disease must be documented by a licensed physician, advanced practice nurse, doctor of osteopathy, or physician assistant. Valid proof of immunization and of immunity based on serological testing shall be entered into the student’s record.
In order to continue attending classes in the District, the student must have submitted:
1)  Proof of immunization showing the student to be fully age appropriately vaccinated;
2) Written documentation by a public health nurse or private physician of proof the student is in process of being age appropriately immunized, which includes a schedule of the student’s next immunization;
3)  A copy of a letter from ADH indicating immunity based on serologic testing; and/or
4)  A copy of the letter from ADH exempting the student from the immunization requirements for the current school year, or a copy of the application for an exemption for the current school year if the exemption letter has not yet arrived.
 Students whose immunization records or serology results are lost or unavailable are required to receive all age appropriate vaccinations or submit number 4 above.
 Temporary Admittance
While students who are not fully age appropriately immunized or have not yet submitted an immunization waver may be enrolled to attend school, such students shall be allowed to attend school on a temporary basis only. Students admitted on a temporary basis may be admitted for a maximum of thirty (30) days (or until October 1st of the current school year for the tetanus, diphtheria, pertussis, and meningococcal vaccinations required at ages eleven (11) and sixteen (16) respectively if October 1st is later in the current school year than the thirty (30) days following the student’s admittance). No student shall be withdrawn and readmitted in order to extend the thirty (30) day period. Students may be allowed to continue attending beyond the thirty (30) day period if the student submits a copy of either number 2 or number 4 above.
Students who are in process shall be required to adhere to the submitted schedule. Failure of the student to submit written documentation from a public health nurse or private physician demonstrating the student received the vaccinations set forth in the schedule may lead to the revocation of the student’s temporary admittance; such students shall be excluded from school until the documentation is provided.
The District will not accept copies of applications requesting an exemption for the current school year that are older than two (2) weeks based on the date on the application.  Students who submit a copy of an application to receive an exemption from the immunization requirements for the current year to gain temporary admittance have thirty (30) days from the admission date to submit either a letter from ADH granting the exemption or documentation demonstrating the student is in process and a copy of the immunization schedule. Failure to submit the necessary documentation by the close of the thirty (30) days will result in the student being excluded until the documentation is submitted.
 Exclusion From School
 In the event of an outbreak, students who are not fully age appropriately immunized, are in process, or are exempt from the immunization requirements may be required to be excluded from school in order to protect the student. ADH shall determine if it is necessary for students to be excluded in the event of an outbreak. Students may be excluded for no fewer than twenty-one (21) days or even longer depending on the outbreak. No student excluded due to an outbreak shall be allowed to return to school until the District receives approval from ADH.
Students who are excluded from school are not eligible to receive homebound instruction unless the excluded student had a pre-existing IEP or 504 Plan and the IEP/504 team determines homebound instruction to be in the best interest of the student. To the extent possible, the student’s teacher(s) shall place in the principal’s office a copy of the student’s assignments:
·     for the remainder of the week by the end of the initial school day of the student's exclusion; and
·      by the end of each school's calendar week for the upcoming week until the student returns to school.
 It is the responsibility of the student or the student’s parent/legal guardian to make sure that the student’s assignments are collected.
 Students excluded from school shall have five (5) school days from the day the student returns to school to submit any homework and to make up any examinations. State mandated assessments are not included in “examinations” and the District has no control over administering state mandated make-up assessments outside of the state's schedule. Students shall receive a grade of zero for any assignment or examination not completed or submitted on time.
 Annually by December 1, the District shall create, maintain, and post to the District’s website a report that includes the following for each disease requiring an immunization under this policy:
o          The number of students in the District that were granted an exemption by the Department of Health from an immunization;
o          The percentage of students in the District that were granted an exemption by the Department of Health from an immunization;
o          The number of students within the District who have failed to provide to the public school proof of the  vaccinations required and have not obtained an exemption from ADH;
o          The percentage of students within the District who have failed to provide to the public school proof of the vaccinations required and have not obtained an exemption from ADH; and
o          The percentage of a population that must receive an immunization for herd immunity to exist.




4.60—STUDENT BEHAVIORAL INTERVENTION AND RESTRAINT
 
Definitions
 "Aversive behavioral intervention" means a physical or sensory intervention program that is intended to modify behavior through the use of a substance or stimulus that the intervention implementer knows will cause physical trauma, emotional trauma, or both, to a student, even when the substance or stimulus appears to be pleasant or neutral to others.
Examples of aversive behavioral interventions include, but are not limited to:
·                 Hitting;
·                 Pinching;
·                 Slapping;
·                 Using a water spray;
·                 Using noxious fumes;
·                 Requiring extreme physical exercise;
·                 Using loud auditory stimulus;
·                 Withholding meals; and
·                 Denying reasonable access to toileting facilities.
 "Behavioral intervention" means the implementation of a service, support, or strategy to teach and increase appropriate behavior or substantially decrease or eliminate behavior that is dangerous, inappropriate, or otherwise impedes the learning of a student.
 "Behavior Intervention Plan" (BIP) means a written plan that:
·                 Is developed by a problem-solving and intervention team and delineates emotional, social, or behavioral goals for a student and the steps that the school, student, parent of the student, and others will take to positively support the progress of the student towards the student’s emotional, social, or behavioral goals;
·                 Is comprised of practical and specific strategies to increase or reduce a defined behavior or one (1) or more patterns of behavior exhibited by a student; and
·                 Includes the following at a minimum:
o           A definition or description of the desired target behavior or outcome in specific measurable terms;
o           A plan for preventing and eliminating inappropriate student behavior by changing a condition that is triggering, motivating, underlying, or supporting that behavior as determined through a FBA;
o           A plan for teaching a student to demonstrate appropriate social, emotional, or behavioral self-management, or a new method to address or meet the student’s needs;
o           A description of how a specific incentive or consequence will be used as needed to decrease or eliminate inappropriate student behavior and increase appropriate behavior;
o           A plan for managing a crisis situation;
o           A system to collect, analyze, and evaluate data about the student;
o           The school personnel, resources, and training needed before implementation of the BIP; and
o           The timeline for implementing different facets of an intervention, including without limitation when the intervention will be formally reviewed.
 "Chemical restraint" means the use of a drug or medication to control the behavior of a student or restrict the free movement of the student; however, chemical restraint does not include the use of medication that is prescribed by a licensed physician, or other qualified health professional acting within the scope of the individual’s professional authority under state law, for the standard treatment of a medical or psychiatric condition of a student and is administered as prescribed by the licensed physician or other qualified health professional acting within the scope of the individual’s professional authority under state law.
 "Crisis" means a situation in which a student engages in a behavior that threatens the health and safety of the student or others and includes without limitation a situation in which the student becomes aggressive or violent at school and is unable to regain self-control without posing a danger of injury to   the student or others.
 "Crisis intervention" means the implementation of a service, support, or strategy to immediately stabilize a crisis and prevent the crisis from reoccurring after the crisis ends.
 "Dangerous behavior" means the behavior of a student that presents an imminent danger of serious physical harm to the student or others; however, dangerous behavior does not include the following:
·                 Disrespect;
·                 Noncompliance;
·                 Insubordination; or
·                 Destruction of property that does not create an imminent danger.
 "De-escalation" means the use of a behavior management technique that helps a student increase the student’s control over the student’s emotions and behavior and results in a reduction of a present or potential level of danger that in turn reduces the level of imminent danger of serious physical harm to the student or others.
 "Emergency" means a serious and unexpected situation that requires immediate action and which may be dangerous.
 "Functional Behavior Assessment" (FBA) means a problem analysis step that:
·                 Occurs within the context of data-based problem-solving and involves:
o           The review of existing records and other sources of information;
o           Diagnostic or historical interviews;
o           Structured academic or behavioral observations; and
o           Authentic, criterion-referenced, or norm-referenced tests; and
·                 Is performed with the goal of determining why a specific problem or situation is occurring in order to directly link a strategic intervention to an assessment and solve or resolve the specific problem or situation.
 "Imminent danger" means an existing dangerous situation that could reasonably be expected to immediately cause death or serious physical harm.
 "Mechanical restraint" means the use of a device or equipment to restrict the free movement of a student; however, mechanical restraint does not include a device that is used by trained school personnel or a student for a specific and approved therapeutic purpose or safety purpose for which the device was designed or prescribed or a vehicle safety restraint that is appropriately used in the manner for which it was designed during the transport of a student in a moving vehicle.
 "Physical escort" means a temporary touching or holding of the hand, wrist, arm, shoulder, or back of a student for the purpose of redirecting or inducing the student to move to a safe location.
 "Physical restraint" means a personal restriction that immobilizes or reduces the ability of a student to move the student’s torso, arm, leg, or head freely; however, physical restraint does not include a physical escort.
 "Prone restraint" means restraining a student in a face-down position on the floor or another surface and applying physical pressure to the body of the student to keep the student in the prone position.
 "Serious physical harm" means bodily injury that involves a substantial risk of death, extreme physical pain, protracted and obvious disfigurement, or protracted loss or impairment of the function of a bodily member, organ, or mental faculty.
 "Supine restraint" means the restraint of a student in a face-up position on the student’s back on the floor or another surface and with physical pressure applied to the body of the student to keep the student in the supine position.
 
  Multi-Tiered Behavioral   Interventions
 The District shall establish a multi-tiered system of behavioral interventions for each student who exhibits social, emotional, or behavioral difficulty that may escalate, if not addressed, to potentially dangerous behavior.
 
  Behavior Intervention Team
 A   behavior intervention team (BIT) shall be established for each student who exhibits social, emotional, or behavioral difficulty that may escalate, if not addressed, to potentially dangerous behavior. The   BIT shall include   members who   are academic and behavioral assessment and intervention   professionals.
 A student’s   BIT shall:
a.                Work with the teachers of a student to complete a FBA of the student and an assessment of any problematic situations involving the student;
b.               Consider the need for a BIP with the goal of preventing or resolving the social, emotional, or behavioral difficulty of the student and developing a response that will de-escalate and stabilize a potential emergency situation that approaches the danger level; and
c.                Regularly review the data on incidents involving the use of physical restraint on the student and adjust, as necessary, the procedures concerning the use of physical restraint on the student.
 Special education procedures shall be followed if a student is suspected of having a disability that relates to behavioral concerns.
 Physical Restraint
 Except in the case of a clearly unavoidable emergency situation in which a trained member of school personnel is not immediately available due to the unforeseeable nature of the emergency situation, the physical restraint of a student shall only be used by a member of school personnel who is appropriately trained to administer physical restraint.
 When using physical restraint on a student, school personnel shall:
·                 use the least restrictive technique necessary to end imminent danger or serious physical harm to a student and others;
·                 Use the safest method available and appropriate to the situation;
·                 Consider the health and safety of a student, including without limitation whether the student has an existing medical condition that makes the use of physical restraint inadvisable;
·                 Not restrict the ability of a student to communicate unless the use of a less restrictive technique will not prevent imminent danger of serious physical harm to the student or others;
·                 Use only the amount of force that is reasonably necessary to protect a student or others from imminent danger of serious physical harm to the student or others;
·                 Not verbally abuse, ridicule, humiliate, taunt, or engage in any other similar action towards the student; and
·                 continuously and visually observe and monitor the student while the student is under physical restraint.
 Physical restraint of a student shall only be used for a limited period of time and shall not be used:
o           When imminent danger or serious physical harm to the student or others dissipates;
o           If a medical condition occurs that puts the student at risk of harm;
o           Unless the behavior of the student poses an imminent danger of serious physical harm to the student or others;
o           After the threat of imminent danger of serious physical harm to the student or others dissipates; or
o           In the following manner:
§     To punish or discipline the student;
§     To coerce the student;
§     To force the student to comply;
§     To retaliate against the student;
§     To replace the use of an appropriate educational or behavioral support;
§     As a routine safety measure;
§     As a planned behavioral intervention in response to behavior of the student that does not pose an imminent danger of serious physical harm to the student or others;
§     As a convenience for school personnel; or
§     To prevent property damage unless the act of damaging property committed by the student poses an imminent danger or serious physical harm to the student and others.
 Even in an emergency, supine restraint shall not be used on a student except by a staff person who has been certified by a crisis intervention training program and the certified staff person determines that supine restraint is required to provide safety for the student and others.
 At no time shall school personnel use the following on a student:
               Mechanical restraint;
               Chemical restraint;
               Aversive behavioral interventions that compromise health and safety;
               Physical restraint that is life-threatening or medically contraindicated; or
               Prone restraint or other restraint that restricts the breathing of a student.
 Following the first incident of physical restraint used on a student, an FBA shall be conducted unless a previous FBA was conducted for the same behavior that was at issue when the physical restraint was used.
 The use of physical restraint on a student as a planned behavioral intervention shall not be included in a student's IEP, 504 Plan, BIP, individual safety plan, or other individual planning document but may be considered as a crisis intervention if appropriate for the student. A student's IEP team or 504 Plan team shall consider whether an FBA should be performed; if a BIP should be developed for the student or if a student’s existing BIP should be revised; and if additional behavioral goals and interventions should be included in the student's existing IEP or 504 Plan.
 Parents may submit complaints regarding an incident involving the use of physical restraint on their student. A complaint shall be referred for review to the appropriate school personnel:
§         The student’s   BIT;
§         The student's IEP team; or
§         The student's 504 Plan team.
A complaint by a parent shall be handled by the appropriate District staff in the same manner as a debrief following the use of physical restraint on a student.1
 Use of a physical restraint technique that is abusive shall be reported to the Child Abuse Hotline and law enforcement.
 
Reports and Debriefing
                 After the occurrence of an incident involving physical restraint of a student, the building principal, or the principal’s designee, shall be notified of the incident as soon as possible but by no later than the end of the school day when the incident occurred.
 The student’s parent shall be notified of the incident of the use of physical restraint via verbal or electronic communication as soon as possible but by no later than the end of the school day when the incident occurred. In the event the student’s parent is unable to be notified via verbal or electronic communication within twenty-four (24) hours after the incident occurred, then the parent shall be mailed written notification of the incident within forty-eight (48) hours after the incident occurred.
 
school personnel involved in the incident shall document the incident in a written report, which is to be completed within twenty-four (24) hours after the incident occurred. The written report of the incident shall:
1.               Include all information contained in the Division of Elementary and Secondary Education (DESE) Physical Restraint or Seclusion Incident Record and Debriefing Report;
2.               Be maintained in the student’s education record; and
3.               Be provided to the student’s parent within one (1) school day of the completion of the report.
 A debriefing meeting shall be held within two (2) school days after the incident occurred. The following school personnel shall be present at the debriefing meeting:2
a.                A member of school personnel who was present during the incident;
b.               A member of school personnel who was in the proximity of the student on whom physical restraint was used immediately before and during the time of the incident;
c.                A school administrator; and
d.               Any other member of school personnel determined to be appropriate by the District.
 The purpose of the debriefing meeting shall be to:
·                 Determine whether the procedures used during the incident were necessary;
·                 Evaluate the use of any behavioral supports and de-escalation techniques by school personnel before and during the incident;
·                 Evaluate the school district's   behavioral intervention procedures   and prevention techniques in order to minimize future use of physical restraint; and
·                 If a trained member of school personnel was not immediately available due to the unforeseeable nature of the emergency situation when the incident occurred:
o           Reevaluate the training needs of school personnel;
o           Reevaluate the physical restraint policy and practices; and
o           Develop a plan to prevent a future incident.
 
At a debriefing meeting, school personnel shall:
1.               Consider relevant information in the student’s education record, including without limitation:
a.                The concerns of the student’s parent;
b.               The student's social and medical history;
c.                The student’s FBA, if one exists; and
d.               The student’s BIP, if one exists;
2.               Consider relevant information from the teachers, parents, and other District professionals;
3.               Discuss whether   the District’s behavioral intervention procedures were appropriately implemented;
4.               Discuss the duration and frequency of the use of physical restraint on the student;
5.               Discuss appropriate action that may be taken to prevent and reduce the need for physical restraint;
6.               Consider whether additional intervention and support is necessary for the student;
7.               Consider whether additional intervention and support is necessary for school personnel; and
8.               Consider how and when to debrief a person who was not present at the debriefing meeting, including without limitation:
a.                The student;
b.               The student’s parent; and
c.                Other school personnel or students who witnessed the incident.
 
DESE’s Physical Restraint or Seclusion Incident Record and Debriefing Report, or an alternative report that includes the same information, shall be completed during the debriefing meeting. A copy of the report shall be:
·                 Submitted to the building principal;3
·                 Mailed to the student’s parent within two (2) days of the date on which the debriefing meeting was held; and
·                 Maintained as part of the student’s education record along with other documents consulted during the debriefing meeting.
 Last Revised: June 2025


TEXTBOOKS/NOVELS


Textbooks and/or novels may be issued to students during the school year.  These books are only on loan and must be kept in good condition.  They are the property of the Brookland School District.  Students will be charged for damaged or lost books.  Books are not to be written in or on and must be returned at the end of the school term.


LIBRARIES AND MEDIA CENTERS


The Brookland Public Schools are equipped with central libraries. Scheduled classes and free flow times are conducted for students by librarians and library staff for all grades.  Books are loaned to students for designated periods of time.  Students are responsible for paying the fee for the replacement of books lost or damaged while in their possession. Students are encouraged to make extensive use of the library at all times.  The library hours are posted at each school site. Longer times may be arranged with prior notification.


DEBTS


Report cards will be held until debts are paid.  No transcripts or records will be released on behalf of students until debts are paid in full.  Students will not be permitted to participate in school activities (club trips, parties, junior - senior prom, senior trip, etc.) unless all debts are paid in full.  Students who move or drop classes prior to the completion of a nine weeks grading period may receive a refund of fees in the amount equal to one half of the semester charge.  After nine weeks, no refund will be made.




4.59—ACADEMIC COURSE ATTENDANCE BY PRIVATE SCHOOL AND HOME SCHOOLED STUDENTS
 
The District allows private school and home schooled students whose parents, legal guardians, or other responsible adult with whom the student resides are residents of the District to attend academic courses offered by the District. The District will place a list of courses that a private school or home schooled student may request to attend on its website by:
1.             June 1 for courses to be offered during the Fall semester; and
2.             November 1 for courses to be offered during the Spring semester.
 
A private school or home schooled student who desires to attend one or more of the available academic courses shall submit a written request to attend the academic course(s) to the superintendent, or designee, no later than:
a.              August 1 for Fall semester courses; or
b.             December 1 for Spring semester courses.
The superintendent, or designee, is authorized to waive the application deadline on a case by case basis.
 
 
The District may reject a private school or home schooled student’s request for attendance if the District’s acceptance would:
·                 Require the addition of staff or classrooms;
·                 Exceed the capacity of a program, class, grade level, or school building;
·                 Cost the District more for the student to attend the academic course than the District receives for the student’s attendance;
·                 Cause the District to provide educational services the District does not currently provide at a financial burden to the District; or
·                 Cause the District to be out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations regarding desegregation.
 
Requests to attend an academic course will be granted in the order the requests are received. Upon the receipt of a private or home schooled student’s request to attend academic course(s), the District will date and time stamp the request for attendance. If a private school or home schooled student is denied attendance based on a lack of capacity and an opening in the requested course occurs prior to the start of the course, the District will use the date and time stamp on the request for attendance to determine the private school or home schooled student who will be notified of an opening in the requested course.
 
As part of the request to attend academic courses in the District, a private school or home schooled student shall:
o        Indicate the course(s) the private school or home schooled student is interested in attending;
o        If the course(s) the private school or home schooled student is interested in attending is being offered by the District in both a physical and a digital format, whether the private school or home schooled student intends to attend the physical course or the digital course;
o    Submit, along with the student’s application, a copy of the student’s transcript indicating that the student has received credit for the course(s), or equivalent course(s), that are a prerequisite to the course(s) the student desires to attend at the District;
o        Agree to follow the District’s discipline policies; and
o        Submit immunization documentation required by Policy 4.57—IMMUNIZATIONS.
 
A private school or home schooled student who fails to attend an academic course by the eleventh (11) day of class or who is absent without excuse for eleven (11) consecutive days during the semester shall be dropped from the course.; however, a private school or home schooled student shall not be considered truant for unexcused absences from the course(s) the student is attending at the District.
 
Private school or home schooled students shall receive a final grade and transcript for each academic course the student completes.
 
The responsibility for transportation of any private school or home schooled student attending academic courses in the District shall be borne by the student or the student’s parents.
 
The opportunity provided to home schooled students under this policy is in addition to the opportunity provided in Policy 4.56.2—EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITY ELIGIBILITY FOR HOME SCHOOLED STUDENTS.
 
Last Revised:


4.61—STUDENT USE OF MULTIPLE OCCUPANCY ROOM


Definitions
"Multiple occupancy room" means an area in a District building that is designed or designated to be used by one (1) or more individuals at the same time and in which one (1) or more individuals may be in various stages of undress in the presence of other individuals, which includes, without limitation, a restroom, locker room, changing room, or shower room.


“Sex" means the physical condition of being male or female based on genetics and physiology, which may be demonstrated by the sex identified on a student’s original birth certificate.


Each multiple occupancy room in a District building shall be designated as either male or female. Except as permitted by this policy, a student shall not enter a multiple occupancy room that does not correspond to the student’s sex.


An individual who is unwilling or unable to use a multiple occupancy room designated for the individual's sex shall be granted a reasonable accommodation, which may include, without limitation, access to a single-occupancy restroom or changing area. A reasonable accommodation shall not include access to a restroom or changing area that is designated for use by members of the opposite sex to an individual while members of the opposite sex of the individual are present or may be present in the restroom or changing area.


The prohibitions in this policy do not apply to an individual who enters a multiple occupancy room designated for use by the opposite sex when the individual enters for any of the following reasons:
               * custodial, maintenance, or inspection purposes;
               * To render emergency medical assistance;
               * To address an ongoing emergency, including without limitation a physical altercation;
               * To accommodate individuals protected under the Americans with Disabilities Act; or
               * To assist young children who are in need of physical assistance when using a restroom or changing facility that is located in the District.


Adopted: 6/5/23


4.62—STUDENT NAME, TITLE, OR PRONOUN


Unless a District employee has the written permission of the parent, legal guardian, person having lawful control of the student, or person standing in loco parentis to the student or the student if the student is an emancipated minor or over eighteen (18) years of age, a District employee shall not address a student with a:
               1. Name other than that listed on the student's birth certificate, except for a derivative of the name; or
               2. Pronoun or title that is inconsistent with the student's biological sex.


A student shall not be subject to discipline for declining to address a person using a:
               1. Name other than that listed on the student's birth certificate, except for a derivative of the name; or
               2. Pronoun or title that is inconsistent with the person's biological sex.


Date Adopted: 6/5/23


4.63—STUDENT RELIGIOUS EXPRESSION


The Brookland School District Board of Directors does not allow the discrimination against a student based on a student’s voluntary religious expression, if any. At the same time, the District shall provide a process to eliminate any actual or perceived sponsorship or attribution to the District of a student's public voluntary expression of a religious viewpoint, if any.


Student Assignments
Student assignments include, but are not limited to:
               * Homework;
               * Classwork;
               * Artwork; and
               * Other written or oral assignments.


A student may express the student’s religious viewpoint, if any, in the student’s assignments without discrimination based on the religious content, if any. A student's assignments shall:
               1. Be graded and judged:
               * By ordinary academic standards of substance and relevance; and
               * Against other conventional, pedagogical topics as identified by the District curriculum; and
               2. Not be penalized or rewarded based on the religious content, if any, of the student’s assignments.


Accommodation will be considered for those portions of instructional activities in the schools that unduly burden a student's sincere religious belief provided such accommodation doesn’t amount to a significant change in curriculum, program, or course of instruction and when it is possible that a substitution of equally rigorous material that advances the same instructional goals can be arranged. Parents and students are advised that such accommodations are easier to grant when the objection is to non-state mandated Standards material than if the material is required by the Standards.


A student or the student's parent can request the student's teacher accommodate the student's objection based on a religious belief to an instructional activity. Any such request must be made at least 25 school days prior to the assignment's due date. Any objection must be raised in accordance with this policy's requirements or it will not be considered.2


Upon receiving such a request, the student's teacher shall determine within five (5) work days if an accommodation is possible under the provisions of this policy. If the teacher decides an accommodation cannot be made or if the student or the student's parent believes the accommodation to be unreasonable, the student or the student's parent may request a conference with the teacher and the teacher's principal. A requested conference will occur at a time of mutual convenience, but no later than five (5) working days following the request. The principal shall have five (5) working days in which to make a decision on the appeal. If the student, the student’s parent, or the teacher is unsatisfied with the principal's decision, it may be appealed to the District Superintendent who shall convene a conference between the student, the parent and the teacher. The requested conference will occur at a time of mutual convenience, but no later than five (5) working days following the request. The Superintendent shall have five (5) working days in which to make a decision on the appeal which shall be final with no further right of appeal.






Student Presenters


A student's expression of a religious viewpoint, if any, on an otherwise permissible subject shall not be excluded from a forum, whether oral or in writing, where students are allowed to speak.


The District has the right to restrict student speech that is inappropriate in the school setting by being obscene, vulgar, offensively lewd, or indecent.


Review of written student forums shall be handled in accordance with Policy 4.14—STUDENT MEDIA AND THE DISTRIBUTION OF LITERATURE.


If the forum is a scheduled event with designated student speakers, the building principal shall have an opportunity to review pre-written remarks prior to the student’s presentation at the scheduled forum. The principal may require the student to amend the student’s remarks to the extent necessary to address any portions that are determined to be inappropriate. A student’s refusal to amend the remarks that were determined to be inappropriate may be prohibited from participation in the forum. A student who diverts from the approved pre-written remarks during a speech in such a manner that is determined to be inappropriate by the building principal or another present District staff member may be asked to return to the approved remarks. If a student refuses to return to the approved remarks or continues to divert from the approved remarks in a manner that is determined to be inappropriate may be escorted from the forum and disciplined in accordance with the District’s Student Code of Conduct.


If the timing or format of the forum does not provide for pre-written remarks to be reviewed, then the building principal or other District staff shall have the authority to address a student whose remarks are determined to be inappropriate. The building principal or District staff member shall initially ask the student to cease the inappropriate remarks. If the student refuses or makes additional inappropriate remarks after being directed to cease such remarks, Then the building principal or District staff member may escort the student from the forum and the student may be disciplined in accordance with the District’s Student Code of Conduct


There shall be a disclaimer that a student speaker's speech does not reflect the endorsement, sponsorship, position, or expression of the District. The disclaimer shall be provided at all forums where students speak and at all graduation ceremonies. The disclaimer shall be provided orally or in writing as most appropriately fits the format of the forum.


Information on how to participate in a student forum shall be provided to all students.


Date Adopted: 6/5/23


4.64—STUDENT USE OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
Definitions
 “Artificial Intelligence (AI) Tools” means Software applications or platforms that utilize machine learning algorithms to perform tasks typically requiring human intelligence, such as generating content, providing recommendations, or solving problems. For purposes of this policy, AI tools does not include the use of spell check or grammar check.
 The purpose of this policy is to establish guidelines for the responsible use of AI tools by District students. The policy applies to all students enrolled in the District and covers the use of AI tools when completing District assignments or projects.
The district shall provide teachers and students resources and education on AI literacy and digital citizenship. The District shall establish a committee who shall be responsible for the review and selection of AI tools that shall be available for students to use. All AI tools selected by the committee shall comply with applicable state and federal data privacy laws. Students shall only use AI tools that were approved by the District committee for classroom assignments or projects.
Teachers are responsible for providing instructions on when and how AI tools may be used for classroom assignments. Students may use AI tools as approved by their classroom teacher to enhance learning and develop future-ready skills.
Students should use AI tools ethically and responsibly, aligning with the district’s educational objectives, and in a manner that does not harm themselves or others. As part of using AI tools responsibly, students should be cautious about the information they provide to AI tools and consult with a teacher if unsure. At no time shall Students share personal, sensitive, or confidential information with AI tools, especially AI tools requiring data input.
 When a student uses AI tools, a student shall:
1.                       Review and verify the accuracy of content that is generated by an AI tool;
2.                       Cite AI tools used as part of an assignment or project as a source, following District citation guidelines; and
3.                       Be transparent about their use of AI in completing assignments.
 Students must ensure all submitted work is their own and properly acknowledge or cite any assistance from AI tools. Students are encouraged to ask questions if they are unsure about the acceptable use of AI tools.
 The following actions regarding AI tools are strictly prohibited:
·                 Misuse of AI tools for cheating, plagiarism, or any form of academic dishonesty, including the submission of assignments that were fully generated by an AI tool and presented as original student work;
·                 Altering or falsifying academic documents or records using AI tools;
·                 Using AI tools to:
o       Gain unauthorized access to District systems; or
o       Bypass District security measures;
·                 Using AI tools to produce misleading or false information, imagery, or any form of false outputs about themselves, other students, or staff members.
 Students should report any inappropriate content or security concerns encountered while using AI tools to a teacher or administrator.
Violations of this policy shall be handled in accordance with the District’s disciplinary procedures.
4.65—ANTISEMITISM PROHIBITED
 “Antisemitism” means a certain perception of Jews, which may be expressed as hatred toward Jews. Rhetorical and physical manifestations of antisemitism are directed toward Jewish or non-Jewish individuals and/or their property, toward Jewish community institutions and religious facilities. Antisemitism may be expressed in speech; writing; visual forms; and actions, and employs sinister stereotypes and negative character traits.
 The following are examples of actions, when taken as a whole, that may constitute antisemitism:
·                 The targeting of the state of Israel, conceived as a Jewish collectivity;
·                 Charging Jews with conspiring to harm humanity;
·                 Calling for, aiding, or justifying the killing or harming of Jews in the name of a radical ideology or an extremist view of religion;
·                 Making mendacious, dehumanizing, demonizing, or stereotypical allegations about Jews as such or the power of Jews as collective — such as, especially but not exclusively, the myth about a world Jewish conspiracy or of Jews controlling the media, economy, government or other societal institutions;
·                 Accusing Jews as a people of being responsible for real or imagined wrongdoing committed by a single Jewish person or group, or even for acts committed by non-Jews;
·                 Denying the fact, scope, mechanisms (e.g. gas chambers) or intentionality of the genocide of the Jewish people at the hands of National Socialist Germany and its supporters and accomplices during World War II (the Holocaust);
·                 Accusing the Jews as a people, or Israel as a state, of inventing or exaggerating the Holocaust;
·                 Accusing Jewish citizens of being more loyal to Israel, or to the alleged priorities of Jews worldwide, than to the interests of their own nations;
·                 Denying the Jewish people their right to self-determination, e.g., by claiming that the existence of a State of Israel is a racist endeavor;
·                 Applying double standards by requiring of Israel a behavior not expected or demanded of any other democratic nation;
·                 Using the symbols and images associated with classic antisemitism (e.g., claims of Jews killing Jesus or blood libel) to characterize Israel or Israelis;
·                 Drawing comparisons of contemporary Israeli policy to that of the Nazis; or
·                 Holding Jews collectively responsible for actions of the state of Israel.
Antisemitism does not include criticism of Israel similar to the criticism leveled against any other country.
 Discrimination and harassment based on antisemitism is expressly prohibited.
 The District shall appoint an individual to act as the District’s Title VI Coordinator, who shall be responsible for investigating any complaints of discrimination or harassment based on antisemitism. The District shall:
1.               Include contact information for the Title VI Coordinator in information that is provided to staff, students, and parents; and
2.               Provide the following on the District website that may be accessed through a link titled “Antisemitism/Title VI”:
a.                The District’s definition of antisemitism;
b.               A statement that antisemitism is prohibited in the District’s educational programs and activities;
c.                A statement that complaints of discrimination or harassment based on antisemitism may be filed with the Title VI Coordinator;
d.               Contact information for the District’s Title VI Coordinator; and
e.                Information on how to file a complaint of antisemitism with the Title VI Coordinator at the Arkansas Department of Education.
 A student or a student’s parent may contact the District Title VI Coordinator directly with any complaints of discrimination or harassment based on antisemitism. District employees are responsible for timely notifying the District Title VI Coordinator of any complaints they receive or incidents they witness of discrimination or harassment based on antisemitism.
 
Complaints of discrimination or harassment based on antisemitism shall be investigated and handled in accordance with Policy 6.7—COMPLAINTS.
 A student who is found to have violated the provisions of this policy may be subject to discipline, up to and including expulsion.
 The District Title VI Coordinator shall report an incident or complaint of discrimination or harassment under this policy to the Arkansas Department of Education Title VI Coordinator.
 In addition to the filing of a complaint under this policy, complaints of discrimination or harassment based on antisemitism may be submitted directly to the Title VI Coordinator at the Arkansas Department of Education.
 Nothing in this policy shall be construed to diminish or infringe upon any right protected under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or Arkansas Constitution, Article 2, §§ 4, 6, and 24.


4.66—ARKANSAS DIRECT ADMISSIONS PROGRAM
 The District shall participate in the Arkansas Direct Admissions Program.1 As part of the District’s participation, the District shall provide data to the Division of Higher Education (DHE) that includes, without limitation:
1.               A student’s grade point average;
2.               A student’s assessment scores;
3.               A student’s course completion; and
4.               Other information required by DHE.
 The District shall inform all students about how the student may participate in the Arkansas Direct Admissions Program.
 The District shall not actively discourage or prohibit an eligible student from participating in the Arkansas Direct Admissions Program.




5.15—GRADING


Parents,  legal guardians, persons having lawful control of a student, or persons standing in loco parentis shall be kept informed concerning the progress of their student.  Parent-teacher conferences are encouraged and may be requested by parents, guardians, persons having lawful control of a student, persons standing in loco parentis, or teachers. If the progress of a student is unsatisfactory in a subject at the time of the 4 ½ week progress report, the teacher shall attempt to  contact the student’s parent/guardian. The teacher shall explain the reasons for difficulties and shall develop, cooperatively with the parents, a plan for remediation, which may enhance the probability of the student succeeding. The school shall also send a text message to parents/guardians at every 4 ½ week progress report period to notify the grades are updated in HAC.
 
The evaluation of each student’s performance on a regular basis serves to give the parents/guardians, students, and the school necessary information to help affect academic improvement. Students’ grades shall reflect only the extent to which a student has achieved the expressed educational objectives of the course.


TAC symbols clarification: 
               * “M” the assignment is missing and the student has 10 school days from the due date to make up the assignment. 
               * “X” the student is exempted from doing that assignment. And that grade will not count for or against a student.
               * “Z” means that a student made no attempt to complete the assignment and that grade will count as a zero.
               * A numerical grade(0-100) is the actual grade the student made on the assignment.
               * An assignment with no letter or number(blank) by it signifies that it is in the process of being graded.
 
The grades of a child in foster care shall not be lowered due to an absence from school due to:
1.    A change in the child's school enrollment;
2.   The child's attendance at a dependency-neglect court proceeding; or
3.   The child's attendance at court-ordered counseling or treatment.
 
The grading scale for all schools in the district shall be as follows:
A =100 – 90
B = 89 – 80
C = 79 – 70
D = 69 – 60
F = 59 and below
 
For the purpose of determining grade point averages, the numeric value of each letter grade shall be:
A = 4 points
B = 3 points
C = 2 points
D = 1 point
F = 0 points
 
The grade point values for Advanced Placement (AP), approved courses for weighted credit, International Baccalaureate (IB), and approved honor courses shall be one (1) point greater than for regular courses with the exception that an F shall still be worth zero (0) points.
 
The final grades of students who transfer in for part of a semester will be determined by blending the grades earned in the district with those earned outside the district. Each final grade will be the sum of the percentage of days in the grading period transferred from outside the district times the transferred grade from outside the district plus the percentage of days in the grading period while in the district times the grade earned in the district.
 
For example: The grading period had forty (40) days. A student transferred in with a grade of eighty-three percent (83%) earned in ten (10) days at the previous school. The student had a grade of seventy-five percent (75%) in our district’s school earned in the remaining thirty (30) days of the grading period. Ten (10) days is twenty-five percent (25%) of forty (40) days while thirty (30) days is seventy-five percent (75%) of forty (40) days. Thus the final grade would be (0.25 X 83) + (0.75 X 75) = 77%.


The following grading scales will be used in the Brookland Primary and Elementary Schools: 
% Grading scale:
A = 90-100%
B = 80-89%
C = 70-79%
D = 60-69%
F = Below 60%
	O = Outstanding
S = Satisfactory
N = Needs Improvement
U = Unsatisfactory 
	



Uniform Grading Scales


The Arkansas Department of Education established the uniform grading scales, and the numeric value given to each letter grade for the purpose of determining grade average in all public secondary schools in the state for regular courses, advanced placement courses, college courses and approved honors courses.
•        “Advanced placement” courses are those courses taught following guidelines as provided for Advanced Placement courses by The College Board.  Advanced Placement courses provide the opportunity for students to take a national examination through which they may qualify for college/university level credit.
•        “College Courses” are courses that are offered and taught under the direction of an accredited institution of higher education.  Under separate Rules and Regulations students may qualify for concurrent credit for such courses if approved by the Arkansas Department of Education.
•        “Honors Courses” are courses provided through an accredited high school that have been approved by a Department of Education Committee as honors courses.  Honor courses must stress higher order learning and be offered in addition to curriculum offerings required by the Standards for Accreditation, Arkansas Public Schools.


________________


Parent/Student Handbook Policy Statement of Notification and Responsibility for 
Brookland Public Schools




             _____________________        ________________________                             ____________
                             Student Name                                    Homeroom Teacher                                            School Year




The statement below must be signed and returned to the home room teacher within one week after the student receives it.  If after one week the student has not returned the form, he/she will not be permitted to attend classes until he/she does comply.


I/we have read the Brookland Public School Parent/Student Handbook for school policies, procedures, and  student conduct and discipline as adopted by the Brookland Board of Education (School Law 6-18-502(e)), including the Student Electronic Device and Internet Use Agreement and Parent Compact.  Although we may not agree with any or all of them, we understand that students must adhere to the policies while he/she is at school or in attendance at school sponsored activities.  In the event we are not entirely certain of some aspects of school policy, we will contact the principal in writing for clarification within one week after receipt of that policy.




 _____________________________________       _________________
Student’s Signature                                                        Date                        Student Signature        Date






_____________________________________       ____________________
Parent/Guardian’s Signature                                                  Date




Parent Contact Name & Phone Number: 


______________________________________________________________


(By signing this form you are affirming that you have read and understand the rules and consequences for student behavior.)